ALL RIGHTY, WELCOME TO
THE WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 3RD,
TWENTY TWENTY TWO REGULAR
MEETING OF THE ANNUAL PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ABOUT MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
THAT IS PROVIDED.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE SOME PAPER
COPIES UP THERE ALSO FOR THOSE
OF YOU IN THE ROOM TONIGHT WE
ARE JOINED BY MR. KAWALSKY WHO
IS OUTSTANDING THE POSITION
OF MR. LEONHARDT IN HIS
ABSENCE.
SO MR. KOWALSKI, COULD YOU
PLEASE DO THE ROLL CALL BRANDO
PRESENT COMMISSIONER ABRAMS
HERE, COMMISSIONER SAUVé HERE,
COMMISSIONER MILLS&apos; HERE,
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YOUR
COMMISSIONER IS HERE.
COMMISSIONER, WE HERE
COMMISSIONER CLARK OK,
COMMISSIONER RIGHT HERE.
OK, WE DEFINITELY HAVE GOT ALL
RIGHT.
WE ARE ON TO ITEM NUMBER THREE
WHICH IS APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA
AND MAY HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE.
COMMISSIONER WAS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
ANY DISCUSSION OF THE MOTION?
ALL READY ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
PLEASE SAY I REJECT.
ALL RIGHT.
THE MOTION CARRIES WE ARE ON TO
ITEM NUMBER FOUR WHICH IS
MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS
MEETING.
WE GOT A COUPLE OF THEM IN OUR
PACKET.
WE ALL HAVE HAD A CHANCE TO
REVIEW MOTION TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES COMMISSIONER MILLS
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ABRAMS
ANY DISCUSSION OR ANYTHING?
NO.
ALL RIGHT.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY I
RAISE YOUR HAND.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OPPOSED?
OK, MOTION CARRIES NOW WE ARE
UNDER ITEM NUMBER FIVE REPORTS
FROM CITY ADMINISTRATION CITY
COUNCIL PLANNING MANAGER
PLANNING COMMISSION OFFICERS
COMMITTEES AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS SO CONCERNING
THE DISH I HAVE NOTHING TO
REPORT AS WE DID NOT MEET LAST
NIGHT AS IT WAS THE PRIMARY
ELECTION AND YOU HAVE HEARD MY
REPORT ON THE LAST TIME COUNCIL
MET ALREADY MR KAWALSKY.
&gt;&gt; ANYTHING TO REPORT FROM
PLANNING?
I DO NOT HAVE ANYTHING AT THIS
TIME OTHER THAN AS YOU ALREADY
MENTIONED I AM STEPPING IN FOR
BIT LEONARD TONIGHT SO I WOULD
ALSO BE AVAILABLE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS IF YOU NEED IT.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHTY.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
OR LIAISONS WOULD LIKE TO SHARE
ANYTHING.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER MILLS, I WILL
REPORT THAT THE OWNERS DID MEET
UH LAST WEEK.
YES, LAST WEEK AND WE DISCUSSED
A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT OPTIONS
THAT MR LEONHARDT BROUGHT TO US
IN TERMS OF SUSTAINABILITY
INCENTIVIZE REQUIRE THAT KIND
OF THING AND I EXPECT THAT
WE&apos;RE GOING TO SEE THE WHOLE
COMMISSION WILL SEE THAT
SOMETIME SOON SO THAT WE CAN
HAVE A CONVERSATION AMONG ALL
OF US ABOUT WHICH IS THE RIGHT
APPROACH OR SUITE OF APPROACHES
.
WE ALSO DISCUSSED SOME CHANGES
PROPOSED CHANGES TO STORM WATER
IN SOME IN RESPONSE TO A LETTER
FROM THE STATE ASKING FOR SOME
CHANGES AND THEN SOME OTHER
THINGS THAT THAT THE FLOODPLAIN
MANAGER BROUGHT TO PROPOSED.
AND SO AGAIN, I&apos;M EXPECTING
THAT WE PROBABLY WILL SEE SOME
OF THOSE AT LEAST SOMETIME
SOON.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK.
ALL RIGHTY.
AND THEN WE ALSO HAVE WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS OF WHICH WE HAD
MANY SO I HOPE PEOPLE GET A
CHANCE TO BE ABLE TO REVIEW
THOSE I WOULD ALSO JUST SAY
THAT WE GOT QUITE A FEW VERY
LATE IN THE IN THE SESSION AND
SO PERHAPS WE CAN DISCUSS IT AT
THE END OF THE MEETING ABOUT
THE REALISTIC NATURE OF WHETHER
WE CAN RECEIVE COMMUNICATIONS
FIFTEEN MINUTES BEFORE THE
MEETING AND ACTUALLY HAVE AND
BE READ SO WE ARE ON THEN TO
PUBLIC COMMENT WHICH IS ITEM
NUMBER SIX.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT
LISTED ON THE AGENDA FOR
THIS EVENING.
SO WE&apos;LL CALL ON YOU JUST TO
YOU HAVE TWO MICROPHONES BUT
OTHERS ARE THE ONES THAT ARE
SUCH AS YOUR MIND IS ON.
SO I WILL MOVE IT CLOSER TO MY
MOUTH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; SO AGAIN, TIME FOR PEOPLE TO
BE ABLE TO SPEAK ON ITEMS THAT
ARE NOT ON THE AGENDA WILL CALL
FIRST ON PEOPLE WHO ARE HERE IN
THE ROOM AND THEN WE&apos;LL MOVE TO
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE IF YOU
GOING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PUBLIC ACCESS FOR PHONE ACCESS
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND END OUR MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED YOUR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING TO THE WEBLINK WHEN
YOU HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING, PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUND
SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF COMMUNICATION.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT IN THE
ROOM THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
ON SOMETHING THAT IS NOT ON THE
AGENDA TONIGHT FOR THIS EVENING
SEEING NONE WE WILL MOVE ON.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYBODY WHO IS IN
LINE REMOTELY MR KAWALSKY, I
HAVE NO HANDS RAISED ONLINE AT
THIS TIME ALL RIGHT, OK.
ITEM NUMBER SEVEN IS PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
MEETING.
WOULD YOU MIND FILLING US IN ON
THAT?
YES.
YOU GUYS RECEIVED
COMMUNICATIONS.
WE HAVE WE GO THROUGH MY LIST
TO A PUBLIC HEARING SCHEDULED
FOR THE NEXT MEETING AND I MAY
HAVE LEFT THAT JUST OFF HERE IF
YOU GIVE ME A MINUTE, WE CAN
PULL THAT UP AND APOLOGIZE
AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TO SCHEDULE A PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT MEETING
WOULD BE THE PLATFORM PLATERO
TOWNHOMES 30 60 80 PLAN.
THAT&apos;S THE SITE DEVELOPED FORTY
THREE TOWNHOMES ON THE EIGHT
POINT FOUR ACRE SITE AND THE
OTHER PUBLIC HEARING WOULD BE
FOR THE AGAIN REVISIONS TO THE
WEST BOULEVARD AND NORTH SOUTH
MAPLE ROAD TUQAY ONE ZONING
DISTRICT.
THOSE ARE SCHEDULED PUBLIC
MEETINGS FOR THE NEXT MEETING.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU SO NOW
WE WILL MOVE ON TO OUR REGULAR
BUSINESS WHICH IS ITEM EIGHT.
WE WILL FIRST BE DISCUSSING
ITEM EIGHT A WITH THE NUMBER
TWENTY TWO DASH ONE THREE THREE
THREE WHICH IS TWENTY FOUR.
TWENTY FOUR IS STADIUM
BOULEVARD.
I&apos;LL INTRODUCE THIS FIRST AND
THEN THE PETITIONER HAS UP TO
TEN MINUTES TO PRESENT THIS
EVENING SO 24 24 IS STADIUM
BOULEVARD UNIVERSITY INSIGHT
PLAN FOR CITY COMMISSION CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL A
PROPOSAL TO CONSTRUCT A FOUR
STORY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
TOTALING APPROXIMATELY TWO
THOUSAND OR TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTEEN THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
AND HOUSING ONE EIGHTY FIVE
DWELLING UNITS AND AN EXISTING
SEVEN THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED
SIXTY SQUARE FOOT OFFICE
BUILDING FACING EAST STADIUM
REMAINS PRIMARY ACCESS TO THE
SITE IS OFF STADIUM IN
MANCHESTER ROAD WHICH LEADS TO
APPROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY FIVE BELOW GRADE PARKING
SPACES.
THIS DEVELOPMENT CONTAINS
COMMERCIAL AND OFFICE ZONING
AND APPROVAL IS SUBJECT TO
COMBINING THREE PARCELS TWENTY
FOUR TWENTY FOUR TWENTY OR 52
STADIUM BOULEVARD AND NINETEEN
FIFTY MANCHESTER ROAD TWO POINT
SIX FOUR ACRES ZONE TO SEE
THREE OR FRINGE COMMERCIAL END
POINT FIVE FIVE ACRES ZONED OR
OFFICE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL SO I BELIEVE WE ARE UP
THEN FOR YOUR TEN MINUTES
OF PRESENTATION MR. KOWALSKI I
TAKE IT YOU ARE PROMOTING
PEOPLE AND CHRISTOPHER ZHANG
HE&apos;S HE&apos;S GOING TO BE ALRIGHT
AS WELL AND I&apos;M PROMOTING
PEOPLE AS WE SPEAK.
PERFECT ALREADY.
&gt;&gt; HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS SAM DESNOS AND I&apos;M
THE CEO OF THE BEST TECH
COMPANIES ALSO ONE OF THE
OWNERS OF THE PROPERTY.
I&apos;M HERE WITH JOHN MAJEWSKI.
I ASK ARCHITECTS WHO WILL BE
DESCRIBING A PROJECT THAT&apos;S IS
A LOCAL MICHIGAN DEVELOPER
BUILDER AND OPERATOR
OF MULTIFAMILY APARTMENTS AND
SENIOR LIVING FACILITIES.
WE&apos;VE BEEN IN THE ANN ARBOR
MARKET FOR OVER THIRTY YEARS
OPERATING WE ARE A FAMILY
BUSINESS THAT&apos;S BEEN AROUND FOR
OVER SIXTY YEARS.
WE HAVE CURRENTLY SIX HUNDRED
AND SIXTY NINE APARTMENTS IN
ANN ARBOR AREA WITH ABOUT
SEVENTEEN THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
OF COMMERCIAL AND WE ALSO OWN
OR OPERATE ABOUT THIRTY FIVE
THOUSAND UNITS NATIONALLY AMONG
FIFTEEN STATES.
WE&apos;RE VERY EXCITED ABOUT THIS
PROJECT AND APPRECIATE YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
I&apos;M GOING TO HAND IT OVER TO
JOHN.
THANK YOU.
I THINK JOSH IS IN THE
BACKGROUND HELPING ME OUT SO
JOSH, DO YOU MIND JUST
FORWARDING THE ONE MORE SLIDE
JUST THE FIRST THING I WANT TO
RUN THROUGH BECAUSE IT&apos;S VERY
BRIEF.
I&apos;LL TRY TO RUN THROUGH THIS
QUICKLY AND THEN YOU CAN ASK
ANY QUESTIONS LIKE IS JUST TO
TALK ABOUT THE SITE INITIALLY
WHEN YOU SEE THE SITE YOU CAN
SEE THERE&apos;S AN EXISTING FOUR
STRUCTURES.
THREE OF THOSE ARE GOING TO BE
TAKEN DOWN AND THE RETAIL
OFFICE BUILDING WHICH SHOWS UP
HERE AND WHITE WILL REMAIN NEXT
.
THE SITE BASICALLY HAS THESE
BOUNDARIES YOU CAN SEE THAT
GOES AROUND THE DIFFERENT
PARCELS AND THAT&apos;S WHERE WE GET
THESE THREE DIFFERENT LOTS NEXT
JUST SOME SITE CONTEXT NEXT.
IT KIND OF LEADS US TO OUR
DESIGN CONCEPT WHICH REALLY WAS
TO TRY TO WORK AROUND THE
EXISTING BUILDING THAT&apos;S TO
REMAIN AND FIND A WAY TO GET
ACCESS INTO THE SITE FROM THE
TWO DIFFERENT LOCATIONS AND
MOST OF THAT KIND OF CAME OUT
OF THE PROCESS OF HAVING THREE
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS WHERE WE
HAD A LOT OF INPUT ESPECIALLY
AT THE FIRST TWO MEETINGS AND
THEN THE ACTUAL LEGAL MEETING
AT THE END.
I THINK PEOPLE THERE WAS A
GENERAL CONSENSUS THAT WE WERE
HEADING IN A VERY STRONG
DIRECTION AND I BELIEVE WE HAD
FOUR IF NOT FIVE MEETINGS WITH
STAFF AND THE FIRE MARSHAL.
THIS BUILDING WAS REALLY VERY
MUCH DRIVEN BY FIRE TRUCKS
BEING ABLE TO DRIVE AROUND IT
AS I&apos;M SURE YOU&apos;VE SEEN ON MANY
OTHER PROJECTS AND WE WERE
TRYING TO DO OUR BEST TO MAKE
THAT STILL OUT OF THE
ARCHITECTURE TO DO WHAT WE
NEEDED TO DO THE FIRST FLOOR
BASICALLY HAS THE KEY ENTRY
POINT OFF OF STADIUM BUT
THERE&apos;S A SECONDARY ENTRANCE
WHICH PROBABLY WILL BECOME
SOMEWHAT MORE OF A DOMINANT
ENTRANCE BECAUSE OF THE FACT
YOU CAN GET OUT ONTO MANCHESTER
AND THEN GO SIGNAL LIGHT.
SO IN MANY WAYS THAT&apos;S
WONDERFUL THAT WE&apos;VE GOT THIS
TRAFFIC FLOW SPLIT BUT IT ALSO
PROVIDES A BENEFIT THAT IF
SOMEBODY IS COMING TO THE FRONT
DOOR THEY CAN EASILY GET THERE
FROM STADIUM NEXT AS THE
BUILDING KIND OF STACKS UP, THE
LOWER LEVEL IS ALL PARKING.
IT&apos;S BASICALLY ALL BELOW GRADE
EXCEPT FOR THAT ONE LITTLE
PORTION THAT&apos;S ON MANCHESTER
WHERE OUR AMENITIES GO OVER THE
PARKING NEXT.
&gt;&gt; THIS TAKES US UP TO THE
TYPICAL LAYOUT OF THE UNITS AS
WE GO UP IN THE BUILDING AND
THE BUILDING IS PREDOMINANTLY
STUDIOS&apos; ONE BEDROOMS, TWO
BEDROOM NEXT BUT DIFFERENT
PARCELS ARE BASICALLY COMBINED
UNDER ZONING.
TWO OF THEM FALL UNDER
BASICALLY THE C THREE ZONING.
WE&apos;RE UNDER THE FHA ON THAT
ONE.
THE OTHER OFFICE WE&apos;RE RIGHT
NEAR IT BUT IT&apos;S A
SUBSTANTIALLY LESS F.R.
OF SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT.
WE&apos;RE AT SEVENTY THREE POINT
NINE NEXT TOTAL UNITS WE&apos;VE
KIND OF ALREADY RUN THROUGH
IT&apos;S WELL PARKED.
IT&apos;S A UNIQUE LOCATION.
IT PROBABLY NEEDS TO BE PART
MORE THAN I THINK MAYBE SOME
OF THE COMMISSIONERS WOULD LIKE
TO SEE AS FAR AS VEHICLES GO.
BUT WE THINK IT&apos;S PARKED RIGHT
FOR THIS PARTICULAR LOCATION
GIVEN THAT THERE&apos;S RETAIL THAT
DOES THE OFFICE AND THE RETAIL
DOES PROVIDE US A LITTLE
BREATHING ROOM WHEN GUESTS
WOULD COME BECAUSE THAT&apos;S
PROBABLY NOT GOING TO BE USED
IN THE EVENING HOURS.
BUT WE WANTED TO FIND THE RIGHT
BALANCE FOR THE PARKING AND WE
REALLY THINK WE&apos;VE DONE THAT
NEXT.
THE DESIGN CONCEPT HAVING TO DO
WITH HEIGHT WAS SOMETHING WE
SPENT A GREAT DEAL OF TIME
TALKING ABOUT.
THIS IS A VERY STRANGE SIGHT
WHEN IT COMES TO ALL THE
DIFFERENT POINTS WE HAD TO
CALCULATE FOR HEIGHT AND IT
TOOK US SOME TIME TO ALL COME
TOGETHER ON THAT.
WE HAVE ALL AGREED THAT IT&apos;S
WELL UNDERNEATH THE PARAMETERS
OF FIFTY FIVE FEET NEXT AND
BASICALLY THE OVERALL BUILDING
IS ABOUT FIVE FEET
PREDOMINANTLY TO THE PARAPET
BELOW THAT POINT.
BUT AS TYPICAL THERE&apos;S AN
ELEVATOR OVER RUN WHICH DOES
STACK UP TO THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT
THAT YOU CAN BARELY SEE IN ONE
LOCATION ON THE BUILDING NEXT
AND JUST CLICK THROUGH THESE
JUST PERFECT SUSTAINABILITY.
WE JUST WANT TO RUN THROUGH
THAT.
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE GOING TO DESIGN
THE BUILDING TO ACTUALLY BE
LEED CERTIFIED WHEN WE SAY
EQUIVALENT.
THAT&apos;S NOT THAT IT WOULDN&apos;T BE
CERTIFIED.
IT&apos;S JUST THAT THERE ARE OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES OUT THERE THAT WE
MIGHT PRESENT TO STAFF.
BUT RIGHT HOW IT WOULD JUST BE
CERTIFIED.
WE WILL HAVE A ROOFTOP SOLAR
ARRAY.
IT&apos;S ONE HUNDRED KILOWATTS
THAT&apos;S COMPARISON I CAN GIVE
YOU IS WHEN WE DID IT ON HOOVER
AND GREEN WE HAD ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY KILOWATTS AND THAT
ENDED UP BEING POWERING FIFTEEN
PERCENT IN THE END OF THE HOUSE
PANELS A PARKING GARAGE, LOBBY
CORRIDORS EVERYTHING OTHER THAN
THE ACTUAL UNITS HERE WE&apos;LL
PROBABLY BE IN THE RANGE
OF ABOUT TEN PERCENT OF THE
HOUSE PANEL WITH ONE HUNDRED
KILOWATTS UNDERGROUND PARKING
LOT ALL OF THE INCREASE
CAPACITY FOR BIKES WE WE&apos;RE IN
EXCESS OF ZONING REQUIREMENTS
AND WE ACTUALLY WILL PROBABLY
EVEN HAVE MORE ENERGY
SOTIROPOULOS NANCIES LOCALLY
SOURCED MATERIAL.
IT IS GOING TO BE AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING, SOMETHING
WE&apos;VE BEEN ASKED TO DO AND
OBVIOUSLY WE HAVE ACCESS TO
LOCAL TRANSIT FACILITIES AT
THIS LOCATION NEXT PERSPECTIVE
VIEWS JUST WANT TO WALK AROUND
IT.
THIS IS REALLY LOOKING FROM THE
FRONT THERE ON THAT RIGHT SIDE.
THAT TREE IS PRETTY MUCH THE
FEATURE TREE THAT WE DID WANT
TO SAVE ON THE SITE.
SEVERAL OF THE OTHER TREES ARE
ALSO BEING SAVED BUT THIS IS A
BEAUTIFUL TREE AND SO WE&apos;VE
TAKEN A LOT OF CARE TO STAY
AWAY FROM THAT NEXT.
IT&apos;S JUST KIND OF BRINGS YOU
INTO THE COURTYARD AS YOU&apos;D
ARRIVE AT THE BUILDING INSIDE
NEXT.
THIS IS A VIEW MORE OF A BIRD&apos;S
EYE VIEW WHEN YOU&apos;RE OVER ON
MANCHESTER AND THEN THAT&apos;S THE
POOL MINUTI AND DECK AND THIS
IS ACTUALLY STANDING ON THE
POOL MINUTI DECK NEXT REALLY
JUST GETS INTO THE MATERIALS.
I MEAN TYPICALLY THERE HAS BEEN
SOME INTEREST IN THAT YOU WANT
ME TO PASS AROUND THE BOARD I
MEAN JUST TO DISPLAY IT OK, SO
ALL THE MATERIALS ARE HERE IF
ANYBODY WANTS TO SEE THEM.
BUT PREDOMINANTLY WHAT WE&apos;RE
DOING IS WE HAVE DARK BRONZE
ANODIZED WINDOWS THAT YOU&apos;LL
SEE IS NUMBER ONE.
THAT ALSO HAPPENS TO BE WHAT WE
USE AS A PANEL FOR A NUMBER SIX
WHEN WE FRAME THE WINDOWS THE
BRICK ACTUALLY HAS THIS KIND
OF LIGHTER TERRACOTTA COLOR.
IT&apos;S SLIGHTLY MIXED.
THE WOOD THAT WE&apos;RE GOING TO
USE IS NOT REAL WOOD.
IT&apos;S SIMILAR.
IT&apos;S LONGBOARD SIMILAR TO WHAT
WE DID ON HOOVER AND GREEN.
IT&apos;S A VERY, VERY SUSTAINABLE
AND SUBSTANTIAL PRODUCT.
IT HOLDS UP REALLY WELL.
IT&apos;S EXTRUDED ALUMINUM.
IT&apos;S BEEN RECYCLED AND THEN
IT&apos;S COVERED .
THIS WILL BE A MUCH DARKER
COLOR.
IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT MORE ON THE
CHERRY SIDE THAN YOU WOULD HAVE
SEEN ON HOOVER AND GREEN.
WE&apos;RE USING HARDY PANELS, NOT
THE TYPICAL HARDY BOARD THAT
YOU WOULD SEE BUT HARDY PANELS
AND THAT&apos;S KIND OF A RAIN
SCREEN SYSTEM OR THE PANELS ARE
ATTACHED BUT THEN USING A BOARD
TO COVER THAT UP SO IT
EFFECTIVELY HAS A BOARD AND
BATTON FEEL WHERE YOU SEE A LOT
OF THE WHITE AND ON THE BIG
INFILL OF THE BIG FRAMES YOU&apos;LL
SEE RUNNING AROUND THE BUILDING
THEY&apos;RE ACTUALLY FILLED IN WITH
A HARDY PANEL AND A GREEN
SCREEN TO ALLOW THAT WATER AND
STUFF TO GET OUT BEHIND AND
THEN THAT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT OF A
DARKER COLOR THAT YOU SEE ON
THE SAMPLE BOARD AS WELL
GENERALLY SPEAKING REALLY,
REALLY SOLID MATERIALS.
WE&apos;VE WORKED VERY CLOSELY WITH
THE DEVELOPER.
IT&apos;S HARD THESE DAYS THINGS ARE
EXTREMELY EXPENSIVE BUT THERE&apos;S
NOTHING ON THIS BUILDING THAT I
WOULDN&apos;T LIKE TO SEE ON IT AND
WE SPENT A LOT OF TIME TRYING
TO WORK THROUGH IT.
SO WITH THAT I&apos;M NOT SURE WHERE
I AM IN TIME BUT I WANT TO OPEN
IT UP TO QUESTIONS YOU STILL
HAVE A COUPLE OF MINUTES IF
THERE&apos;S ANYTHING ELSE YOU WANT
TO GET IN UNDER THE WIRE.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S VERY RARE BUT I&apos;M
GOING TO THAT TIME TO USE THANK
THANK YOU.
I GUESS WE SHOULD HAVE THE
STAFF REPORT THEN FROM MR
CHENG.
&gt;&gt; YES.
GOOD EVENING.
I WOULD SAY THAT THEY DID A
VERY NICE JOB OF MAKING THEIR
PRESENTATION.
JUST A COUPLE OF OTHER ITEMS I
PROBABLY WANT TO TO ADD THEY
ARE ALSO DOING AND MEETING THE
EB VEHICLE PARKING REQUIREMENT
IS WITH TWENTY TWO INSTALLED
SPACES.
THEY ALSO ARE PUTTING IN
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFERS AT
THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF THE
SITE TO SCREEN FROM THE
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
THERE WILL BE SOME LANDMARK
TREES REMOVED AND THEY ARE
MITIGATING WITH TREES PLANTED
THROUGHOUT THE SOUTH AND EAST
PORTION OF THE SITE LOOKING AT
IT THEY ALSO ARE IN REVIEW FOR
THEIR STORMWATER DETENTION
SINCE INFILTRATION IS NOT
POSSIBLE AT THE SITE THEY ARE
OVER SO THEY ARE DETAINING AT
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY PERCENT
AND I THINK MAYBE ANYTHING ELSE
THAT WASN&apos;T MENTIONED WAS THAT
THEY DO HAVE BUS STOPS.
THAT WAS I THINK IT ACTUALLY
WAS MENTIONED BUT THEY DO HAVE
BUS STOPS AND I&apos;M OPEN TO ANY
QUESTION YOU MAY HAVE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU ALREADY.
&gt;&gt; SO THEN WE CAN MOVE ON TO
THE PUBLIC HEARING AND THEN WE
CAN HAVE A DISCUSSION.
SO AT THIS POINT WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE TO SPEAK
UP TO THREE MINUTES.
WELL, FIRST CALL AN INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT IN THE ROOM TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE TO RAISE A HAND
FEATURE FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
END OUR MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE THROUGH THOSE
ACCESSING WHAT WEBLINK YOU WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUNDS THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT FIRST
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK?
ANYBODY PRESENT IN THE ROOM
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON
STADIUM?
PLEASE COME UP.
YOU CAN STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AND YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; WILL YOU MOVE TO ONE TWO
FIVE BID DEPARTMENT SIX THANK
YOU.
&gt;&gt; GO TO THE NEXT ONE.
THERE YOU GO.
YEP YOU GOT IT.
GIVE ME BACK TO ONE TWO FIVE
MIDFORD APARTMENT SIX I LIVE
BEHIND THIS WHAT THEY&apos;RE
PROPOSING THEY SAY THAT THE
UNIVERSITY IN IS A TWO STOREY
BUILDING BUT IF YOU GO TO THE
BACK OF THE PARKING LOT AND
LAMPPOST PLAZA THE BASEMENT IS
ABOVE GROUND.
SO IT&apos;S ACTUALLY A THREE STOREY
BUILDING.
SO IF YOU PUT A BUILDING IN
THAT&apos;S FOUR STORIES AT STADIUM
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE FIVE STORIES
IN THE BACK.
AND JUST BEYOND THAT LITTLE
PARKING STRIP THAT&apos;S PART
OF THE LAMPPOST PLAZA, THERE&apos;S
ANOTHER EIGHT FOOT DROP DOWN TO
THE EVERYONE&apos;S APARTMENTS.
SO FROM THAT VANTAGE POINT IT
WOULD LOOK LIKE A SIX STORY
BUILDING.
THERE IS CURRENTLY A STRIP
OF TREES BETWEEN THE UNIVERSITY
AND THE PARKING LOT WITH TREES
THAT ARE 40 OR 50 FOOT HIGH.
THAT SCREEN THAT BUILDING AND
ACCORDING TO THE PLANS I&apos;VE
SEEN THAT&apos;S GOING AWAY AND THE
STUFF THEY&apos;RE PUTTING THERE
WOULD NOT HAVE ANY ABILITY TO
SCREEN THAT BUILDING TO THE
SOUTH.
SO THAT&apos;S WHAT I SEE.
AND I GOT ONE OTHER THING.
THERE&apos;S A BLACK CHERRY TREE
THERE RIGHT ON THE MARGIN
BETWEEN OH CURRENT PROPERTY AND
THE NINETEEN FIFTY MANCHESTER
THAT THEY&apos;VE GOT DOWN AS A 36
INCH DIAMETER AND I&apos;VE MEASURED
THAT THING SEVERAL TIMES AND
IT&apos;S A JOINT THREE TWO TRUNKS
ONE IS A TWENTY EIGHT INCH
DIAMETER AND THE OTHER ONE&apos;S
SIXTEEN SO COMBINED THAT&apos;S A
VERY LARGE TREE THAT DESERVES
SPECIAL CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OR ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ON THIS.
&gt;&gt; OK NONE.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO SEE IF
THERE&apos;S ANY ANYBODY WAITING IN
THE QUEUE FOR PHONE AND I HAVE
NOBODY WITH A HAND RAISED
ONLINE THIS TIME.
OK GO AHEAD AND JUST POPPED OK
GO FOR IT SO WAIT FOR ME
.
&gt;&gt; OK ANNA WHY IS IT YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THANK YOU.
I ALSO LIVE NEAR HERE THE
DEVELOPMENT LIKE THE PREVIOUS
SPEAKER MY NAME IS ANNA OSAKI
AND ABOUT TWENTY ONE THIRTY
SEVEN MEDFORD ROAD APARTMENT
FIFTEEN AND I WOULD SAY THAT
THERE IS MUCH ABOUT THIS
DEVELOPMENT THAT LOOKS GREAT.
I AM SPEAKING NOW BECAUSE I AM
AN ACTIVE MEMBER OF THE CHURCH
THAT WE JOURNEY AT NINETEEN
HUNDRED MANCHESTER AND THE
CONSTRUCTION PERIOD OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AS FAR AS WE CAN
TELL IS GOING TO SIMPLE
INABILITIES UNDERNEATH THIS.
I&apos;M NOT THE MOST VERSED IN
SPEAKING TO BUT AS FAR AS I
UNDERSTAND THE CONSTRUCTION
PROCESS IT IT APPEARS TO HAVE
SORT OF A BARE MINIMUM
CONSIDERING IN MIND OUR JOURNEY
OF FAITH.
SO I AM CONCERNED ABOUT THAT AS
A LOT OF ALSO VULNERABLE
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY ACCESS
ASSISTANCE AT THIS CHURCH.
SO I JUST WANTED TO MENTION
THAT AND I ALSO WANTED TO SAY
THAT THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER I&apos;VE
SEEN HIM PICK GROUNDS NEAR THE
TREES ON DURING HIS TIME I&apos;VE
LEARNED ABOUT THE TREES IN THIS
AREA THROUGH MY NEIGHBORS SUCH
AS HIM.
SO I APPRECIATE ANY MITIGATION
AND IF THERE&apos;S MORE MITIGATION
THAT WE CAN DO, THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT&apos;S REALLY
VALUABLE TO THE COMMUNITY HERE
.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE MR KORSKI AND
THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS
RAISED.
OK WE WILL MOVE ON THEN TO I
WILL READ THE MOTION AND THEN
WE WILL HAVE DISCUSSION SO THE
MOTION READS THE UNIVERSITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVED THE
UNIVERSITY INSIGHT PLAN AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TO FOUR
TO FOUR E STADIUM BOULEVARD
SUBJECT TO COMBINING THE
PARCELS IN WASHTENAW WATER
RESOURCE COMMISSIONER APPROVAL
BY COMMISSIONER M. SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER SAUVé ALREADY WE
ARE IN DISCUSSION.
ANYBODY LIKE TO START US OFF
COMMISSIONER WHICH I&apos;LL START
WITH THE TREES BECAUSE I HAD
QUESTIONS ABOUT THEM MYSELF.
SO ON THE SITE PLAN I THINK
I&apos;LL START WITH STAFF AND I
DON&apos;T KNOW THE DEVELOPER NEEDS
TO RESPOND.
I COUNT EITHER NINE OR 10
LANDMARK TREES BUT YOU MEASURE
IT BY INCHES AND ON THE SITE
PLAN IT LOOKS LIKE IT&apos;S NINETY
.
SO THE SPEAKER&apos;S COMMENT AROUND
THE FORTY FOUR INCH TREE ARE
THERE ANY RESPONSES TO THAT
THAT WE CAN SHARE ABOUT THE
MITIGATION OF THAT TREE?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT SURE EXACTLY WHICH
TREE SPECIFICALLY THE IS
TALKING ABOUT IS THAT THE ONE
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
BUILDING BETWEEN THE PARKING
LOT?
&gt;&gt; I BELIEVE THAT&apos;S WHAT HE WAS
FIVE SEVENTY SIX OK THE THE THE
WHOLE TREE THING WAS SOMETHING
THAT WE WENT THROUGH WITH EACH
INDIVIDUAL TREE AND WE WORKED
WITH CITY STAFF TO DETERMINE
WHICH THOSE TREES WERE, WHAT
DIAMETER THEY ARE AND WHICH
LANDMARK TREES WOULD NEED TO
COME DOWN.
SO THE SPECIFICS OF EACH TREE
HAVE BEEN REVIEWED.
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF IF THE SPEAKER
REALIZES HE MIGHT BUT BUT I
JUST WANT TO POINT OUT THAT OUR
BUILDING IS SET TWENTY FEET
BACK FROM OUR PROPERTY LINE AND
THAT PRETTY MUCH PUTS IT CLOSE
TO WHERE THE EXISTING
UNIVERSITY IN IS.
BUT THEN IN FRONT OF THAT WHICH
ISN&apos;T OUR PROPERTY IT VARIES
FROM TWENTY TO ALMOST ABOUT
TWENTY TWENTY EIGHT TWENTY NINE
FEET OF ANOTHER STRIP OF LAND
AND I&apos;M SURE THE SPEAKER HAS
HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK AT ALL
OF THOSE BUT MANY OF THOSE
TREES ARE NOT ON OUR PROPERTY
AND THEY&apos;RE NOT GOING TO BE
TOUCHED.
SO THE MITIGATION THAT WE&apos;VE
PROPOSED IS TO REPLACE THE
TREES THAT WE NEEDED TO REMOVE
TO MAKE THE DEVELOPMENT WORK.
SOME OF THAT ACCESS ON THAT
SIDE UNFORTUNATELY IS FOR THE
FIRE DEPARTMENT TO HAVE ACCESS
AND TO GIVE THEM ENOUGH OF A
SIDEWALK TO BE ABLE TO RUN
AROUND AND WALK AROUND THE
BUILDING.
OTHER OPPORTUNITIES THAT WE
LOOKED AT TO TRY TO MITIGATE
THAT INVOLVED ACTUALLY HAVING
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT HAVE A ROAD
AROUND THE BUILDING WHICH THEN
CAUSED EVEN MORE DAMAGE TO THE
TREES THAT WE WERE GOING TO
PROPOSE.
SO I JUST WANT TO POINT THAT
OUT AND I WOULD REALLY QUICKLY
WANT TO JUST ADDRESS THE OTHER
SPEAKERS QUESTIONS WE WOULD
ABSOLUTELY BE WORKING WITH THE
CHURCH TO MAKE SURE WHATEVER WE
DO AND HAD NO IMPACT ON THEIR
PARKING WHETHER THAT WAS DURING
THE WEEKDAYS OR ESPECIALLY
OBVIOUSLY ON THE WEEKENDS.
SO THAT WOULD JUST BE A
STANDARD PART OF DOING A
PROJECT IN ANN ARBOR.
SO I CAN ASSURE HER THAT THAT
WILL BE SOMETHING THAT WILL
HAVE A GREAT DEAL OF DISCUSSION
WITH THEM ABOUT AND WE CAN
ABSOLUTELY MITIGATE ANY
CONCERNS THAT THEY WOULD HAVE.
IT&apos;S NEVER PERFECT.
IT&apos;S CONSTRUCTION BUT I&apos;M SURE
THAT WE CAN WORK IT OUT SO THAT
IT WOULDN&apos;T BE AN ISSUE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU TO THE LAST POINT
AROUND THE CHURCH, MR. CHIANG
IS IT POSSIBLE FOR THE
DEVELOPER TO NOTE THAT IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IF THE
DEVELOPER IS AGREEABLE TO TRY
TO FIGURE OUT SOME KIND
OF MITIGATION BECAUSE IT&apos;S AN
OLDER CONGREGATION, IT&apos;S
PROBABLY ONE OF OUR OLDEST
CONGREGATIONS SO THEY USED TO
BE ON CAMPUS AND THEN THAT
BUILDING BURNED AND THEN THEY
MOVED TO THIS SITE AND SO I
KNOW THEY SERVICE A LARGELY
ELDERLY COMMUNITY AND THEY ALSO
HAVE A FOOD BANK THAT&apos;S THERE
DURING THE WEEK.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I&apos;M LET&apos;S START LET&apos;S
START WITH MR. BANKS.
YEAH.
THERE IS A SOMEWHAT UPDATED
DRAFT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT I
JUST SAID TODAY I DID HAVE A
BRIEF DISCUSSION WITH OUR
ATTORNEYS OFFICE.
SO THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE SOME
GIVE AND TAKE OBVIOUSLY WHEN
WE&apos;RE DISCUSSING THE DRAFT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND THIS
IS SOMETHING I&apos;M SURE WE&apos;RE
GOING TO HAVE TO DISCUSS.
SO I&apos;M SURE WE&apos;RE GONNA HAVE A
MEETING OF THE NEAR FUTURE.
&gt;&gt; OK, GO AHEAD.
THANK.
I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
WE&apos;VE BEEN IN THE CONVERSATION
WITH THE CHURCH THE JOURNEY
OF FAITH AND PASTOR ALEX SINCE
WE ACQUIRED THE PROPERTY NEARLY
TWO ALMOST TWO AND A HALF YEARS
AGO AND UM WE MET WITH MEMBER
MEMBERS OF THE CHURCH INITIALLY
TO DISCUSS THE PROPOSED PROJECT
AND KEPT THEM APPRIZED OF THE
PROGRESS THROUGHOUT THEY DID I
BELIEVE SOME MEMBERS ATTEND THE
MEETING AND SOME OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS THAT WE
HAD AS WELL.
SO I THINK THEY ARE I CAN&apos;T
SPEAK FOR THE CHURCH OBVIOUSLY
BUT I THINK THEY&apos;RE WELL
INFORMED OF OUR INTENTIONS AND
WE&apos;VE SHOWED GOOD FAITH IN
TRYING TO COOPERATE WITH THEM
AS GOOD NEIGHBORS.
I&apos;M NOT SURE WHICH YOU
SPECIFICALLY WOULD BE LOOKING
FOR IN TERMS OF COOPERATION BUT
WE CERTAINLY, YOU KNOW, INTEND
TO BE GOOD NEIGHBORS AND
CONTINUE TO WORK WITH THEM AS
MUCH AS WE CAN MAKE SURE IF YOU
ALL ARE STILL NEGOTIATING THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND YOU
ARE AGREEABLE TO HAVE SOME KIND
OF PROVISION THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WE&apos;VE TALKED ABOUT WITH
OTHER DEVELOPERS AND LOCAL
BUSINESSES OR ENTITIES AROUND
THE DEVELOPMENT.
SO TO MITIGATE THE CONSTRUCTION
DEBRIS, THE NOISE LIKE WHEN
THINGS ARE GOING TO HAPPEN, HOW
IT MIGHT DISRUPT THE SERVICE
WHERE PEOPLE ARE PARKING THOSE
TYPES OF THINGS ARE THE SOME
OF THE CONCERNS AROUND THAT.
SO IF YOU FEEL LIKE YOU&apos;VE HAD
A GOOD SET OF CONVERSATIONS AND
STAFF FEEL LIKE THAT IS WORKING
WELL, MY QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS
HAVE BEEN ADDRESSED.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, WELL WELL THANK YOU.
I MEAN WE CERTAINLY WILL WANT
TO TRY TO MITIGATE IT.
I&apos;M NOT SURE YOU KNOW, YOU
KNOW, IF WHAT THEY&apos;D BE LOOKING
FOR YOU KNOW YOU KNOW, WE
CERTAINLY CAN&apos;T PROVIDE
ADDITIONAL PARKING OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT.
I MEAN WHETHER OR NOT THEY&apos;RE
PARKING ON OUR SITE DURING
THEIR SERVICE IS I CAN&apos;T SPEAK
TO A GENERAL BASIS BUT AS IT
RELATES TO NOISE AND DEBRIS AND
THAT KIND OF STUFF, WE
CERTAINLY WILL DO DO OUR BEST.
&gt;&gt; THANK ANYBODY ELSE.
COMMISSIONER MILLS DIGGING IN A
LITTLE BIT TO THE SITE PLAN AND
JUST BETTER UNDERSTANDING THE
TREES.
I&apos;M CURIOUS OF THE LANDMARK
TREES THAT ARE COMING DOWN.
HOW MANY OF THEM ARE ASSOCIATED
WITH FIRE LANES AND IN
PARTICULAR JUST DRIVING BY THE
SITE THERE&apos;S A COUPLE OF BIG
TREES IN THE FRONT.
IT&apos;S DID I AM I CORRECT IN
UNDERSTANDING AND READING THE
SITE PLAN THAT THOSE ARE
REMAINING THAT WON&apos;T BE
AFFECTED BY THAT?
I FIRELINE TO THE NORTHWEST,
CORRECT?
&gt;&gt; YES.
THOSE WON&apos;T BE OK BECAUSE
THERE&apos;S LIKE TWO THAT HERE LIKE
RIGHT ONE RIGHT ON THE PROPERTY
LINE AND ONE THAT&apos;S A LITTLE
BIT BEAST OK.
YEAH GREAT.
&gt;&gt; THE OTHER ONES THOUGH THAT
ARE BEING REMOVED TEND TO BE ON
THE SOUTH SIDE AND THAT&apos;S WHERE
YOU&apos;RE SAYING THAT THAT
SIDEWALK IS REQUESTED FOR FIRE
ACCESS.
YEAH IT&apos;S THE SIDEWALK FOR
FIRAXIS IN THE FACT THAT WE&apos;RE
PUTTING AN UNDERGROUND PARKING
STRUCTURE THERE THAT&apos;S GOING TO
REALLY IMPACT THE ROOT ZONE.
A FEW TREES THAT ARE THERE, THE
ONES RIGHT ALONG THAT SOUTH
SIDE GREAT.
OTHER THAN THAT AND HOPE SO
THIS IS A QUESTION FOR STAFF
THAT ENTRANCE OR THAT THAT
SECOND CURB CUT ON TO ST. THAT
APPEARS TO BE IS IT ONLY FOR
THE FIRE LANE?
IS THAT THE INTENTION THERE AND
YES.
&gt;&gt; ARE INSTRUCTED GO AHEAD MR.
CHENG.
&gt;&gt; YES.
IN DISCUSSIONS WITH PETITIONER
IN THE FIRE MARSHAL IT IS
REALLY FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLES
ONLY I BELIEVE IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
CURB ALSO SO IT WILL PREVENT
OTHERS FROM ACCIDENTALLY
ENTERING THE SITE.
&gt;&gt; IS IT DONE AND I MEAN IS
WILL IT ALL BE PAID?
I CAN&apos;T QUITE I GUESS I SHOULD
HAVE LOOKED AT THAT ON THE SITE
PLAN BEFORE OR IS THERE OPTIONS
TO MAKE THAT NOT IMPERVIOUS
GIVEN HOW RARELY IT OUGHT TO BE
USED?
YOU KNOW, UP OF MY HEAD I DON&apos;T
I DON&apos;T RECALL IF IT&apos;S PAVED OR
SOME TYPE OF PERVIOUS PAVERS ON
THERE BUT AGAIN IT&apos;S GOING TO
HAVE THE WHOLE FIRE APPARATUS
SO WHATEVER TYPE OF SERVICE IT
IS, IT&apos;LL IT&apos;LL OBVIOUSLY BE
ABLE TO HOLD EMERGENCY
EQUIPMENT.
I WOULD JUST ADD IT IS AT THE
FIRE MARSHAL&apos;S REQUEST.
IT IS PAVED WE MADE AS MINIMAL
AS POSSIBLE AND WE&apos;RE BASICALLY
TRYING TO DO A MOUNTABLE CURB
SO THE TRUCK CAN GET UP IT.
BUT I DON&apos;T THINK ANYBODY ELSE
WOULD WANT TO GO IN THERE.
WE HAVE NO INTENTION TO EVER
USE IT.
WE&apos;D PUT A GATE UP BUT NOBODY
WANTS US TO PUT A GATE UP SO
WE&apos;RE JUST TRYING TO DOWNPLAY
IT THE BEST WE CAN.
THAT&apos;S SIMPLY FOR THE FIRE
TRUCK TO PULL IN TO HOOK ITS
HOSE UP TO AND THEN MEET THE
DISTANCES IT NEEDS TO RUN
AROUND THE BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; IS IT REALLY ABOUT YOUR
BUILDING OR IS IT ABOUT THE ONE
THAT&apos;S ADJACENT?
WELL, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S ALL ABOUT A
LITTLE BIT IT&apos;S THE REASON WHY
THOSE BUILDINGS HAVE AN IMPACT
IS IN IN A SCENARIO WHERE WE
KNEW WHAT WAS GOING TO HAPPEN
WITH ALL OF THAT PROPERTY IN
THE FUTURE, WE TRIED TO SEE IF
WE COULD GET AN EASEMENT TO GO
ACROSS.
WE COULDN&apos;T AGREE ON THAT
BECAUSE I DON&apos;T THINK FOR THE
LONG TERM THEY HAVE ANY IDEA
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN WITH THAT
PROPERTY.
SO WE&apos;RE SELF CONTAINING THIS
AND TO SOME EXTENT IF SOMEBODY
WERE TO BUILD ANOTHER PROJECT
NEXT DOOR IT WOULD BENEFIT THEM
AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; GOT IT.
AND SO THAT&apos;S THE LOCATION
THERE&apos;S REALLY TO GET AT
SOMETHING PRESUMABLY ON THIS
MIDWAY DOWN THE EASTERN THOUGH
THAT WOULD BE THE WESTERN
PROPERTY LINE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IT GETS YOU DOWN THE
WEST AND A PARTIALLY ACROSS THE
BACK SOUTH ALMOST TO THE CORNER
JUST A LITTLE BIT AND THEN IF
YOU GO OFF A MAN CHESTER THAT&apos;S
ACTUALLY THE ACCESS DRIVE TO
THE PARKING.
BUT WE NEED TO HAVE THAT FOR
THE FIRE TRUCK AS WELL.
AND SO THAT&apos;S THE OTHER POINT
THAT FIREMEN CAN WANT RUN BACK
AND FORTH ON THE BACK OF THE
BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; GOT IT.
AND COMING IN THE MAIN CURVE IS
THAT JUST THAT THERE&apos;S NOT
SPACE TO TURN AROUND?
NO, THERE&apos;S ENOUGH ON THE
INSIDE ON THE MAIN CURVE WHEN
YOU CAN DRIVE AROUND THEY CAN
GET IN THERE, THE FIRE TRUCK
CAN TURN AROUND AND IT CAN
FIGHT THE FIRE THAT IT NEEDS TO
DO WITHIN THAT SIDE.
YEAH.
AND ACTUALLY IT CAN ACTUALLY
GET TO THE PORTIONS IT NEEDS TO
REACH ON THE WEST SIDE IT&apos;S
JUST REALLY THIS SOUTHWEST
CORNER THAT&apos;S NOT ACCESSED AT
WELL BUT JOB DOWNPLAYING THE
FLIGHT PLAN IT REALLY STANDS
OUT IN THIS PLAN AND THANKS FOR
ACCOMMODATING THAT.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS MUCH LARGER SO WE&apos;VE
REALLY TRIED TO GET IT TO THE
BARE MINIMUM.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, YEAH.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE CONTROL OVER THE
GET KIND OF THERE&apos;S LOTS
OF INTERPLAYING THINGS GOING ON
HERE.
PRESUMABLY I DIDN&apos;T PICK UP ON
THIS TRASH IS OH THERE IT IS A
BEING ACCESSED THE BECAUSE
THAT&apos;S THE OTHER THING THAT
OFTEN DRIVES DESIGN
THE PICKUP
WILL BE IN THE KIND OF INTERIOR
PORTION OF THE BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; CORRECT.
OK SO WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO WORRY
ABOUT IT DRIVING THROUGH THE
BUILDING AND SOME OF THE OTHER
THINGS WE&apos;VE HAD TO DO WE
ACTUALLY HAVE ENOUGH SPACE FOR
THE TRASH TRUCK TO TURN AROUND
AND PICK UP AND THOSE ARE
STORED WITHIN THE BUILDING
BEHIND A DOOR BUT THEN THAT
DOOR&apos;S OPEN WHEN THE TRASH
TRUCK COMES AND PICKS IT UP.
&gt;&gt; GREAT I I JUST WANT TO GIVE
COMPLIMENTS ON THE ABILITY TO
WORK WITH THIS.
I SHAPE AND WORKING AROUND AN
EXISTING BUILDING.
I ALSO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE AND
WE DIDN&apos;T HEAR THOSE VOICES
TONIGHT BUT WE HAD TONS
OF EMAILS FROM FOLKS
COMPLIMENTING THAT THIS WILL BE
ELECTRIFIED.
AND IS IT TRUE THAT THERE IS NO
NATURAL GAS HOOK UP HERE?
NOT EVEN BACKUP?
NO.
&gt;&gt; SO THE THE IDEA THAT WE ARE
NOT CONNECTING NEW
INFRASTRUCTURE CONNECTING
ADDITIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE IS
REALLY FANTASTIC, YOU KNOW?
AND SO I REALLY WANT TO COMMEND
THE TEAM FOR THINKING ABOUT
THAT MAKING THAT POSSIBLE AND
SAVING YOURSELF SOME MONEY AND
NOT CONNECTING TO THE GAS FROM
THE GET GO.
&gt;&gt; SO I APPRECIATE LIMITING THE
SURFACE IMPERVIOUSNESS.
YOU KNOW, I THINK YOU&apos;RE RIGHT.
WE WE REGULARLY TALK ABOUT
LIMITING PARKING.
I BUT THAT IT&apos;S UNDER THE
BUILDING I THINK IS THE REAL
BENEFIT.
IT&apos;S NOT A GIGANTIC SURFACE
PARKING LOT.
I MEAN THIS IS A QUARTER THAT&apos;S
WELL SERVED OUR SOME OF OUR
MOST FREQUENT BUSSES RUN DOWN
UP WASHTENAW AND THAT&apos;S JUST
BEYOND THAT.
YOU KNOW YOUR MAIN ENTRANCE
CONSIDER YOUR FRONT DOOR
ENTRANCE.
AND SO I I I REALLY APPRECIATE
THIS BUILDING AND THE AND AND
AGAIN JUST FITTING INTO A
UNIQUE SPACE SO THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
IF YOU&apos;VE EVER BEEN THERE I
WOULD VERY PLEASED WITH THE
AMOUNT OF EMAILS THAT WE GOT
FROM PEOPLE REALLY EXCITED
ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR PROJECT
ON VACATION AND HOW THAT&apos;S
HELPING ME BECAUSE THAT WE HAVE
THE I&apos;M GOING TO ASK IF YOU ARE
INCLUDING GASPERS.
I&apos;M GLAD TO HEAR THAT YOU&apos;RE
NOT ARE YOU REMOVING THAT PHONE
CALL, PRESIDENT?
&gt;&gt; I WOULD ASSUME THERE ARE SO
YES.
BUT THAT&apos;S AWESOME.
YEAH, I GUESS MY MY ONLY REAL
QUESTION ON THAT IS HAVE YOU
HAD CONVERSATIONS WITH DTT LIKE
I WAS DOING THIS THE ADDING
MORE TO THE RED WE&apos;VE HAD THOSE
PRELIMINARY CONVERSATIONS AND
DETI IS FIVE ON A PROJECT LIKE
THIS IS GENERALLY WILLING
OBVIOUSLY TO ADD IT TO WHATEVER
THEY NEED TO DO AND TO BRING
THE INFRASTRUCTURE INTO IT.
YOU COVER WHAT WE NEED FOR THIS
BUILDING SO THAT ISN&apos;T AN ISSUE
TRYING TO COMMUNICATE WITH THEM
THAT ISN&apos;T IT?
&gt;&gt; BUT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S A SEPARATE
MATTER.
I&apos;M VERY EXCITED ABOUT THE
PROJECT.
I WANT TO THANK YOU BOTH.
USUALLY IT&apos;S SOMETHING TO ASK
AND THEN DEVELOPERS TO THINGS
THAT ARE NOT PUT INTO THE COME
AND THIS YOUR GOAL TO THIS
PROJECT IS REALLY OUT THEM.
THANK YOU FAMOUS.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
HI.
UM EXCUSE MAYBE JUST PICKING UP
ON THE CONVERSATION AROUND
ELECTRIC AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
I WONDER I HAD KIND OF TWO
QUESTIONS I GUESS ONE IS UM
ABOUT THE SELECTION OF THE TAX
SYSTEM AND WHETHER OR NOT
THAT&apos;S THE MOST EFFICIENT
SYSTEM YOU COULD COULD SPARK
THERE AND I MEAN THAT OUTSIDE
THE SCOPE OF OUR PURVIEW.
BUT MAYBE I JUST WANTED TO
RAISE IT AS A QUESTION AND THEN
ALSO JUST ASSUMING THAT THERE
ARE OTHER THINGS WILL MAKE THE
BUILDING EFFICIENT LIKE
INSULATION AND AN EFFICIENT
ENVELOPE WHICH WILL MAKE THAT
ELECTRIC ELECTRIC SYSTEM EVEN
MORE EFFICIENT.
SO I THINK THOSE WOULD BE GREAT
TO QUESTIONS.
I GUESS ONE IS I WANTED TO JUST
MAYBE SPEND A LITTLE BIT
OF TIME DISCUSSING THE CONCERNS
RAISED BY THIS BY THE SPEAKER
ABOUT THE BUILDING HEIGHT AND I
THINK I SEE LIKE A SUBSTANTIAL
ELEVATION DIFFERENCE FROM NORTH
TO SOUTH ON THE SITE.
SO WHEN YOU SAY IT&apos;S A FOUR
STORY BUILDING WITH A MAXIMUM
HEIGHT OF FIFTY FIVE FEET MAYBE
JUST FOR EVERYBODY&apos;S BENEFIT WE
COULD ARTICULATE WHERE THE
BENCHMARK WHERE ZERO IS.
&gt;&gt; OK AND THEN WHAT IS
ADDITIONAL ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE BUILDING WE DON&apos;T HAVE A
SECTION SO IT&apos;S HARD TO SEE THE
RELATIONSHIP OF THE BUILDING TO
THE GROUND AT THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE SITE.
&gt;&gt; BUT JOSH IF YOU WOULDN&apos;T
MIND PULLING UP THE HEIGHT
DIAGRAM, I THINK THAT&apos;S THE
BEST PLACE TO START AND IT
SPECIFICALLY IT SPECIFICALLY
SHOWS I THINK GO BACK ONE MORE
TO THE HEIGHT IT ONE MORE THAN
THAT PERFECT.
THIS SPECIFICALLY SHOWS THE
ACTUAL GRADING ON THE SITE SO
YOU CAN SEE THE BENCHMARK FOR
THE OVERALL GRADING AROUND THE
BUILDING CREATES AN AVERAGE
HEIGHT OF EIGHT HUNDRED AND
SIXTY NINE THE OVERALL MAXIMUM
HEIGHT THAT WE&apos;RE ALLOWED TO GO
TO IS NINE TWENTY FOUR THAT&apos;S
THAT RED DASH LINE.
IT SHOWS UP BETTER IN THE
ELEVATIONS BECAUSE THIS IS A
LITTLE BLEAK BUT IF YOU LOOK
ALONG THAT SOUTH SIDE OF THE
BUILDING YOU&apos;LL BASICALLY SEE
THE EXISTING GRADING IS
POTENTIALLY RIGHT AT THE
MIDPOINT AT THIS THE EIGHT
SIXTY NINE WHICH IS THE AVERAGE
GRADE THAT IT HAPPENS TO BE ON
THE OTHER PARTS OF THE SITE.
BUT YES, THE FRONT OF THE SITE
IS APPROXIMATELY THREE TO FOUR
FEET HIGHER THAN THE SOUTHERN
BACK CORNER.
BUT AS YOU DRAW DOWN TO THE
EAST OVER ON MANCHESTER WE DO
DROP DOWN AND THAT&apos;S WHERE WE
SPECIFICALLY DROPPED THE THE
BUILDING YOU CAN SEE THE FACADE
STEP DOWN WHEN WE SWITCH
BETWEEN THE C THREE AND THE
ZERO I&apos;M SORRY THE OLD ZONING
YOU SEE A STEP ON THIS DRAWING
AND THAT SHOWS YOU WHERE WE&apos;RE
TRYING TO ADDRESS THE HEIGHT
ISSUE THAT WAS A CONCERN AND
THAT WAS BROUGHT UP WITH
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS
INITIALLY.
BUT I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERN.
IT IS EFFECTIVELY THOUGH A FOUR
STORY BUILDING AT THAT POINT IT
IS LIFTED UP TO THOSE NEIGHBORS
TO THE SOUTH BUT WE ARE TRYING
TO KEEP IT WELL WITHIN THE
HEIGHT LIMITS THAT OUR OUR
PERMIT IT AND IS THERE MAYBE
JUST HELP US UNDERSTAND IS
THERE WHAT IS IN THIS SPACE
LIKE WHERE THAT EIGHT FIFTY
THREE ELEVATION MARKER IS?
I KNOW THAT THE DRIVEWAY BUT IS
THERE MY UNDERSTANDING OF THAT
TO THE SOUTH THERE&apos;S PARKING.
YEAH I SORT OF TRADER JOE&apos;S
COMPLEX RIGHT JOSH IF YOU GO TO
THE GROUND FLOOR PLAN WE
BASICALLY WHAT WE HAVE IS
THERE&apos;S A REAL SKINNY LOT
THAT&apos;S TRADER JOE&apos;S PARKING LOT
THAT RUNS ALONG THAT SELL SIDE.
SO THERE&apos;S A STRIP OF WEIRD
PROPERTY THAT ISN&apos;T PART OF OUR
SITE WHICH BASICALLY ACHIEVES
SOMEWHAT OF AN EXISTING LAND
BUFFER AND IT HAS TREES ALONG
IT ON THE SOUTH SIDE.
THEN THERE IS PARKING KIND
OF NON CONFORMING PARKING ONE
SIDED PARKING WITH A STRIP
OF PAVEMENT THEN THERE ARE A
WHOLE BUNCH OF OTHER TREES THAT
ARE NOT ON OUR PROPERTY AND
THEN YOU HIT OUR PROPERTY LINE
AND THEN THERE&apos;S 20 FEET WHERE
SOME OF THOSE TREES ARE STILL
WITHIN THAT AREA.
BUT EFFECTIVELY THAT KIND
OF SIDEWALK RUNS AROUND FOR THE
FIREMEN TO GET AROUND THE
BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
SO EFFECTIVELY THERE&apos;S QUITE A
BIT OF LANDSCAPE UP THERE IS
OK, THANK YOU.
AND THEN MY LAST QUESTION MAYBE
IS MORE FOR STAFF IN THE STAFF
REPORT.
THERE&apos;S A SENTENCE IN THERE
THAT SAYS THERE&apos;S CONCERN WITH
SAFETY OPERATIONS AND I
WONDERED I THINK IT&apos;S LET&apos;S SEE
IF IT&apos;S UNDER TRAFFIC STAFF
COMMENTS PAGE THREE AND I JUST
WANTED TO KNOW MORE ABOUT THAT
.
I THINK IT&apos;S REALLY I TOOK THAT
SECTION RIGHT FROM THE TRAFFIC
ENGINEER WHO STATED THAT AND WE
HAD THE PETITIONER ACTUALLY PUT
THIS ON THE SITE.
SO IN THE FUTURE IF IF THE
TURNING DRIVEWAY WAS APPROVED
WITH A CONDITION THAT FUTURE
SAFETY AND OPERATIONAL ISSUES
MAY REQUIRE THIS DRIVE ACCESS
TO BE CONVERTED TO WRITE IN AND
RIGHT NOW ONLY SO AT THIS TIME
THEY&apos;RE NOT EXPECTING ANY TYPE
OF ISSUE WITH THE TRAFFIC
CIRCULATION.
BUT WE HAD AND PUT IT ON THE
SITE PLAN IN CASE THERE NEEDS
TO BE CHANGES IN THE FUTURE.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT MEANS THEY&apos;LL
OBSERVE THE CONDITIONS AT THAT
STADIUM CURB AND IF NECESSARY
CONVERT THAT JUST WITH SIGNAGE
TO A RIGHT AND RIGHT.
OK, OK THAT&apos;S ALL THANKS
COMMISSIONER.
CAN YOU SAY MORE ABOUT UM THE
ENTRANCE AND EXIT BECAUSE I
THAT&apos;S A PATH FOR ME TO BIKE TO
WORK AND IT&apos;S ALREADY A FAIRLY
PRECARIOUS PATH BECAUSE YOU
HAVE FOLKS COMING OUT OF THE
TRADER JOE&apos;S THEY THEY CROSS
THE CROSSWALK AND THEY SIT IN
THE CROSSWALK.
&gt;&gt; SO AS A BIKER I EITHER HAVE
TO GO AROUND IN FRONT WHICH
PUTS ME OUT ON STADIUM OR I
HAVE TO GO BEHIND WHICH MAY GET
THE IRE OF A CAR THAT&apos;S TRYING
TO POP OUT TO GET TO THAT
TURNING LANE.
SO ARE WE SAYING THAT TRAFFIC
SAID IT WAS OK FOR THEM TO EXIT
AND MAKE A LEFT TURN OUT
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT?
IS THAT WHAT YOU SAID AND THEN
YOU&apos;RE NOTICING IT ON THE SITE
PLAN THAT IF IT IS A PROBLEM
AND I NEED SOME CLARIFICATION
OF WHAT A PROBLEM IS IS THAT AN
ACCIDENT AND THEN THEN IT WILL
BE CHANGED TO WRITE AND WRITE
OUT?
YES, THAT WOULD BE MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT THE TRAFFIC
ENGINEER BUT I THINK IT HAS
MORE TO DO WITH THE IF THE
TRAFFIC VOLUMES ARE INCREASE
AND THEIR CIRCULATION ISSUES
THAT AT SOME POINT IN THE
FUTURE IF IT IS CAUSING
CONGESTION AT THE ENTRANCE
THERE AT WASHTENAW STADIUM THAT
WE&apos;VE HAD THAT OPTION SINCE
IT&apos;S ON THE SITE THEN THAT YES,
WE ARE GOING TO MAKE A RIGHT
TURN ONLY RIGHT IN.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT OUT.
SO WHAT IF
I CAN ASK A FOLLOW
UP WHAT TRIGGERS THAT
DETERMINATION
?
SO IS IT A CAR PEDESTRIAN
INCIDENT, A CAR BIKE INCIDENT,
A CAR CAR INCIDENT LIKE THAT?
OH, SORRY.
I WAS JUST GOING TO JUMP IN IF
THAT&apos;S OKAY.
MY NAME&apos;S LARRY AND I&apos;M THE
TRAFFIC ENGINEER THAT HAD
WORKED ON THE TRAFFIC STUDY FOR
THIS PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; UM, I BELIEVE THAT THE
CONCERN WAS WITH THE WESTBOUND
ELECTRON MOVEMENT INTO THE SITE
JUST CONCERNED THAT THAT
MOVEMENT MAY BE BACKING UP
TRAFFIC THROUGH THE
INTERSECTION.
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, OUR TRAFFIC MODELS
AND OUR TRIP ESTIMATES DID NOT
SEE A MUCH BIGGER INCREASE THAN
WHAT&apos;S CURRENTLY THERE.
NOW AS FAR AS THOSE LONG TERM
MOVEMENTS AND THE Q WE DO A
RING ANALYSIS AND THEN ONLY
SHOW AT THE MOST WE&apos;LL BE ABLE
TO TURN IN THERE AND SO IT WAS
APPROVED BUT JUST THEY WANT TO
MONITOR THAT IF THERE IS A
PROBLEM WITH THAT MOVEMENT
BACKING UP THEN WE MIGHT NEED
TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT THE
RESTRICTING TURNS IN AND OUT.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK MY QUESTION STILL
REMAINS AND SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF
IT&apos;S FOR STAFF OR TO YOU CHAIR
GIVE RANDOL TO GET ANSWERED
WHICH IS WHAT TRIGGERS THE
CHANGE IN THE DIRECTION OF THAT
TRAFFIC.
SO HOW BECAUSE IT FEELS ODD TO
ME IF I&apos;M READING THIS
CORRECTLY AND UNDERSTANDING
WHAT I&apos;M HEARING CORRECTLY IS
WE&apos;RE GOING TO WAIT UNTIL AN
INCIDENT OCCURS AND THEN
EVALUATE WHAT WE DO.
SO IF I&apos;M NOT HEARING THAT
CORRECTLY, COULD SOMEONE
DISABUSE ME OF WHAT I&apos;M
HEARING?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S NOT SOMETHING THAT
I&apos;VE EVER RUN ACROSS PERSONALLY
SINCE I&apos;VE BEEN HERE SINCE 2001
.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF MR. KOWALSKI
HAS ANY SENSE OF THAT EITHER IN
TERMS OF THE PAST OR PERHAPS
MISS PAWLICK IF THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT YOU&apos;VE
EXPERIENCED OR MR. CHENG
BECAUSE YOU&apos;VE BEEN HERE FOR A
LONG TIME, DO ANY OF YOU
EXPERIENCED PEOPLE THAT&apos;S BEEN
HERE FOR A LONG TIME WHAT WOULD
YOU HAS THERE BEEN A PRECEDENT
IN THE PAST WHERE WE&apos;VE HAD TO
KIND OF WAIT AND SEE IN TERMS
OF A TRAFFIC POTENTIAL TRAFFIC
ISSUE?
THERE WERE I&apos;M THINKING A
LITTLE BIT FURTHER IN THE
FURTHER PAST TEN YEARS OR SO
AGO.
WELL, ACTUALLY CLOSER THAN THAT
THERE&apos;S IF YOU REMEMBER EVEN
THE SOUTH PARK PROJECT HAD IF
YOU GUYS REMEMBER THE FIRST
TIME THE LARGE SINGLE FAMILY
DEVELOPMENT BEHIND OUR LAND
THERE THAT HAD LOTS OF ISSUES
RECIRCULATION THAT PART OF THE
AGREEMENT WAS TO HAVE THEM PAY
UP TO THAT ENTRANCE OF IT.
BUT THERE WERE KIND OF LIKE A
QUALIFICATION THAT SAID WELL IF
THE CITY BUT IT WASN&apos;T DIRECTLY
WITHIN A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
IT WAS KIND OF A WAIT AND SEE
IN AN ENFORCEMENT TYPE OF ISSUE
MEANING THAT IF THAT DID BECOME
A PROBLEM THE CITY IS GOING TO
POSSIBLY GO BACK AND EITHER
LOOK AT IF TRAFFIC IS GOING
NORTH ON CHARMEUSE WHICH WAS
DIRT THERE MAY BE AN ISSUE WITH
THAT.
YOU KNOW, RESTRICTING TURN&apos;S
COMING OUT OF THAT DEVELOPMENT
BUT WAS ALWAYS DONE IN KIND
OF A LIKE I KNOW WHAT YEAH.
I THINK YOU&apos;RE LOOKING FOR A
DEFINITE METRIC BUT LIKE TO SAY
THAT THIS HAPPENS BUT AT THAT
POINT OTHER DEVELOPMENTS I&apos;M
THINKING OF IT WAS REALLY BASED
ON A KIND OF A COMPLAINT DRIVEN
ASPECT ALMOST LIKE IF WE SEE
THESE ISSUES THIS IS BECOMING A
PROBLEM.
THE TRAFFIC ENGINEERS I MEAN
THEY HAVE KIND OF A COMPLAINT
TYPE SYSTEM.
SO THAT&apos;S BASICALLY WHERE IT
WAS THERE WASN&apos;T BECAUSE LIKE
YOU SAID, THERE&apos;S NO IT&apos;S NOT
SAYING THERE&apos;S NOTHING IN
METRIC SAYS ONE ACCIDENT.
IT TRIGGERS THIS AS FAR AS I
KNOW AGAIN I&apos;M GOING TO REFER
WASN&apos;T MY PROJECT OFFICER AND
THE TRAFFIC ENGINEER BUT THAT&apos;S
HOW IT&apos;S BEEN DONE IN THE PAST
THAT WE&apos;VE HAD I DON&apos;T THINK
WE&apos;VE HAD THEM IN LIKE IN MUCH
LARGER PROJECTS.
THERE&apos;S BEEN THINGS THAT HAVE
BEEN ADDED TO DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENTS THAT HAVE TO IF THIS
TRIGGERS THIS AND THAT&apos;S DONE
BUT I DON&apos;T THINK THAT&apos;S THE
CASE IN THIS PROJECT.
SO PROBABLY THE SHORT ANSWER TO
THAT IS IS IT&apos;S KIND OF YEAH, I
WON&apos;T SAY COMPLAINT DRIVEN BUT
REALLY BASED ON THE SITUATIONS
THAT THAT OCCUR AFTER THE
DEVELOPMENT IS UP AND RUNNING,
I MEAN THESE SITES DO GET
MONITOR.
I MEAN PEOPLE DO LOOK AT THESE
AND AND WE DO HEAR ABOUT THIS
ISN&apos;T WORKING.
THIS IS WORKING SO THAT MAYBE
ALONG WITH YOUR ANSWER I HOPE
IT HELPED A LITTLE BIT.
SO I HAVE SEEN THINGS SIMILAR
IN THE PAST.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SOUTH PARK WASN&apos;T NEVER BUILT
SORRY.
&gt;&gt; WHAT WAS THAT SOUTH POND
WASN&apos;T EVER BUILT.
CORRECT.
WE EVER GOT TO SORT OF TEST THE
WATER.
WELL YOU&apos;RE RIGHT EXACTLY.
BUT I&apos;M THINKING OF OTHER
PROJECTS WHERE IT WASN&apos;T THAT
UNCOMMON WHERE THAT SAID WELL
WE&apos;RE GOOD WITH THIS RIGHT NOW
BUT WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO GO
RIGHT IF THIS IS AN ISSUE AND I
THINK WHETHER OR NOT THAT&apos;S
INCLUDED IN THE IN THE I DON&apos;T
TO SPEAK OUT OF MY LEAGUE BUT I
THINK WHETHER OR NOT THAT WAS
EVEN MENTIONED UP FRONT IF
SOMETHING BECOMES AN ISSUE, THE
CITY CAN GO IN THERE AND YOU
KNOW WHETHER OR NOT IT WAS
MENTIONED IN THE FIRST IF THIS
BECOMES A PROBLEM THE CITY CAN
GO IN THERE AND TAKE SOME
CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TO HELP
ADDRESS THE PROBLEM.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU IF YOU DON&apos;T MIND, I
JUST WANT TO ADD A LITTLE A
LITTLE BIT OF HISTORY TO THAT
TO FIT THE CITY AND IT&apos;S
PROBABLY NOT USE PLANNING
COMMISSION BUT THE CITY TRAFFIC
PLANNERS I THINK FOR A LONG
TIME HAVE BEEN LOOKING AT THIS
INTERSECTION AND WE HAD SEEN
MANY PRELIMINARY DESIGNS FOR
THE INTERSECTION.
SO I ALSO BELIEVE PART OF THE
CAUTION AND PART OF THAT
REQUEST TO PUT THAT ON WAS TO
GIVE THE CITY SOME FLEXIBILITY
SHOULD THEY CHANGE THE
INTERSECTION AND I DON&apos;T WANT
TO SAY WHAT THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE
BUT YOU KNOW, YOU COULD IMAGINE
IT COULD BE A ROUNDABOUT IT
COULD BE SOMETHING COMPLETELY
DIFFERENT IN THE WAY THOSE COME
TOGETHER.
SO GIVE I BELIEVE IT GIVES THE
CITY A LITTLE FLEXIBILITY ONCE
THAT WOULD I IT DIDN&apos;T COME UP
TO BE HONEST AS A SAFETY ISSUE.
IT JUST CAME UP MORE AS AN
ISSUE OF HOW DO WE ADDRESS
SOMETHING WE MIGHT DO IN THE
FUTURE TO MAKE THAT
INTERSECTION THAT I WOULD JUST
LIKE TO PIGGYBACK ON ON YOUR
COMMENT AS A AS A BIKER THROUGH
THERE.
I THINK THIS IS THIS IS A
REALLY ROUGH SPOT IN AN
OTHERWISE PRETTY LIKABLE AREA
WHICH IS HARD BECAUSE THE
STADIUM HAS A NICE HAS A NICE
LANE THERE AND THEN YOU CAN
CONNECT UP TO THE SYSTEM GO
THROUGH COUNTY FARM PARK WHICH
IS WONDERFUL AND THERE&apos;S THIS
SECTION THAT&apos;S TERRE BULL RIGHT
IN THAT LITTLE ZONE THAT YOU&apos;RE
AT.
SO I&apos;M THRILLED THAT YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO BE REBUILDING THE
SIDEWALK IN THERE.
I THINK IT&apos;S A BIGGER ISSUE.
MR ABOUT HOW TO INTEGRATE BIKES
INTO THIS AREA THAT I FEEL YOUR
FRUSTRATION AND THERE&apos;S ONLY SO
MUCH THEY CAN DO.
I THINK ABOUT IT THEY&apos;VE
OVERSIZE THEIR PART THEIR THEIR
SIDEWALK BY TWO FEET.
THEY&apos;VE HIT SEVEN FEET WIDE
INSTEAD OF FIVE FEET WIDE WHICH
I APPRECIATE BECAUSE I THINK
THAT PEOPLE DO WANT TO BE ABLE
TO USE THAT LITTLE THAT LITTLE
ZONE AND THROUGH THEIR AND
FRANKLY I WOULD ENCOURAGE THE
CITY IN THE REMAINING STRETCH
IN FRONT OF THE THE THE PARCEL
THAT THEY&apos;RE KIND OF WORKING
AROUND AND CONNECT ALL THE WAY
UP TO MANCHESTER TO REPLACE
THAT SECTION AT THE SAME TIME
BECAUSE IT&apos;S IT&apos;S AWFUL AND
THERE YOU ALMOST HAVE TO GET
OFF YOUR BIKE.
IT&apos;S SO BAD IN TERMS OF HOW
PITTED IT IS.
SO I THINK THE CITY HAS TO DO
HAS TO BE THINKING ABOUT SOME
OF THESE LARGER ISSUES ABOUT
CONNECTIVITY HERE BECAUSE IT
REALLY IS PRETTY GREAT ON
EITHER SIDE AND THEN IT JUST
FALLS APART RIGHT IN THIS SHORT
LITTLE SECTION HERE.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS,
COMMISSIONER LEE?
YEAH, I THINK WHAT COMMISSIONER
WISCH WAS TRYING TO SAY IS THAT
WE SHOULD HAVE SOME LEVEL OF AN
EVALUATIVE FRAMEWORK AND NOT
LIKE WAIT FOR SOMETHING TO
OCCUR BUT RATHER TO HAVE A
DEFINED PERIOD AFTER
STABILIZATION TO SAY HEY, LET&apos;S
LET&apos;S EVALUATE WHAT
THOROUGHFARE LOOKS LIKE.
AND OBVIOUSLY I THINK WE ALL
OF US HAVE SAID THAT
STRENGTHENING NON MOTORIZED
TRANSIT IN OUR CITY IS
IMPORTANT.
REDUCING SINGLE OCCUPANCY
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED IS AN
IMPORTANT FACET OF WHAT WE&apos;RE
TRYING TO ACHIEVE.
SO AGAIN, I THINK BRINGING
HOUSING THAT IS CLOSER TO THE
ATTRACTORS OF JOBS WITHIN THE
CITY IS IMPORTANT.
THIS HAS OBVIOUSLY BEEN A
DIFFICULT SITE.
IT IS ACTUALLY.
SO I LIKE THE IDEA THOUGH THE
DIFFICULTY OF PRE ALLOCATING
RESOURCES IS ON EVALUATING YOUR
SIX TWELVE MONTHS AFTER
STABILIZATION.
IT&apos;S KIND OF A TOUGH YOU KNOW,
HOW DO YOU ALLOCATE RESOURCES
FAR?
&gt;&gt; SO I UNDERSTAND THE CONCERN.
IT JUST SEEMS LIKE A DIFFICULT
THING TO TRY AND YOU KNOW,
MECHANICALLY STRUCTURE IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
SO I UNDERSTAND WHERE YOU&apos;RE
COMING FROM.
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST WANTED TO SAY IT
PROBABLY BETTER TO TRY AND SET
THAT AS OPPOSED TO WAIT FOR
SOMETHING BAD HAPPEN TO TAKE
ACTION.
THAT MEANS THAT ACTUALLY MY
QUESTION IS ACTUALLY WITH
RESPECT TO THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT I THINK IT WAS I MEAN
JUST GO TO A SECTION P SEVEN.
THIS ONE IS FOR STAFF.
IT SAYS DEVELOPER AGREES TO BE
INCLUDED IN A FUTURE SPECIAL
ASSESSMENT DISTRICT ALONG WITH
OTHER BENEFIT AND PROPERTY FOR
CONSTRUCTION OF ADDITIONAL
IMPROVEMENTS TO EASTERN
BOULEVARD MANCHESTER ROAD SUCH
STREET WIDENING STORM SEWERS,
CURB GUTTERS, SIDEWALKS AND I
WANTED JUST A LITTLE BIT MORE I
GUESS KNOWLEDGE FOR MY OWN
SAKE.
I MEAN WHAT WHAT DOES THAT
NECESSARILY MEAN?
I MEAN I THINK CLARIFY IS
IMPORTANT FOR BOTH DEVELOPER
AND JUST FOR ME WHAT THAT P
SEVEN REALLY MEANS AS FAR AS
LIKE WHAT CAN WE EXPECT IS THAT
JUST THE FLEXIBILITY TO SAY
ANYTIME IN THE FUTURE THERE
COULD BE AS YOU KNOW, FUTURE
ASSESSMENT DISTRICT AND THEY&apos;LL
VOTE IN FAVOR OF IT.
AND I&apos;M JUST TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT MECHANISMS THAT
PARTICULAR SECTION MEANS FOR
BOTH THE CITY AND FOR THE
DEVELOPER.
&gt;&gt; SO I DID OR THE DRAFT
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH THE
CITY ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT AND
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF STANDARD
LANGUAGE AND I THINK THAT IS A
STANDARD PARAGRAPH THAT IS
INCLUDED AND THAT THEY WANTED
LEFT IT.
NOW IF THAT BEING SAID, WE
STILL ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE TO
REVIEW THE DRAFT DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AND I THINK THERE IS
GOING TO BE SOME GIVE AND TAKE
WITH THE DEVELOPER AS WE&apos;RE
REVIEWING AND APPROVING THE
DRAFT DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND
THAT&apos;S EXACTLY WHY IT IS A
DRAFT AT THIS TIME.
SO IF THE DEVELOPER WANTS TO
DISCUSS THIS FURTHER, I&apos;M SURE
OUR ATTORNEY IN OUR ATTORNEY&apos;S
OFFICE WILL BE DISCUSSING IT
FURTHER.
BUT I THINK TO SCARE PARAGRAPH
AND OUR ENGINEER DID LOOK AT
OVER AND AND WANTED TO LEAVE
THAT SECTION IN OK, GOT IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I JUST NEEDED A LITTLE BIT
OF CLARIFICATION AND AND YEAH
OVERALL I THINK IT&apos;S FULLY
ELECTRIFIED BRINGS ADDITIONAL
HOUSING.
I THINK YOU GUYS MADE REALLY
GOOD LOOKING DEVELOPMENT WITH
THE CONSTRAINTS THE GEOMETRY
OF THE SITE FROM THE THE
VISIBILITY THE HEIGHT OBVIOUSLY
FROM THE S REAR I THINK THE
CONFLICTING BUFFER WILL HELP.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, I THOUGHT ABOUT A
LOT ABOUT WHAT THE SOUND
ATTENUATION MIGHT BE.
AH KERRY OF THE AMENITY DECK ON
THE SOUTH EASTERN PORTION JUST
MAKING SURE THAT WE DIDN&apos;T
NECESSARILY DISTURB ANY
OF THESE SITES ADJACENT SITES
BUT AGAIN THE CONFLICTING LAND
USE BUFFERS DESIGNED WELL.
SO I THINK A LOT OF THOUGHT
WENT INTO THIS SO KUDOS TO YOU
GUYS.
&gt;&gt; I LOOK FORWARD TO SUPPORTING
THIS.
THANKS COMMISSIONER SAUVé, ONE
FINAL COMMENT.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY QUESTIONS.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE PROJECT
BUT I DID SEE YOU KNOW, IT WAS
EVALUATED TO BE ONE WHERE
THERE&apos;S A QUESTION OF WHY TO
ZONE OR NOT ZONE AND WITH
PARKING AND THIS IS MORE FOR
YOU KNOW, PLANNING PERMISSION
AND THAT THE HEARING IS COMING
UP TO REZONE MORE AND WASHTENAW
IS ONE OF THE NEXT TO BE
BLANKETED.
AND I THINK WHILE THIS ISN&apos;T TO
SEE ONE THE TARGETS ABOUT NOT A
LOT OF SURFACE PARKING ARE
HERE.
ELECTROPAC AND HOUSING DENSITY
ARE HERE.
SO I REALLY APPRECIATE THIS
BEING THE GATEWAY TO WASHTENAW
AND THE DISCUSSION OF TAXI ONE
TWO AND THE EFFORTS FOR
ELECTRIFICATION.
SO JUST YOU KNOW, ADDITIONAL
OBSERVATION IS NOT REALLY
AROUND THIS PROJECT PER SAY BUT
WHAT THIS PROJECT CAN LEND INTO
OTHER PROJECTS AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK SO MUCH COMMISSION
REALLY THIS QUESTION
PETITIONERS IN AN IDEAL TIME
FRAME, WHAT DOES IT LOOK LIKE?
I&apos;M ASKING IN ON BEHALF
OF BASICALLY THE CHURCH AND YOU
KNOW, OTHER PEOPLE THAT MAY BE
IMPACTED BY CONSTRUCTION IN A
PERFECT WORLD.
RIGHT MOBILIZATIONS
CONSTRUCTION COSTS ALL THEY
MAGICALLY GO DOWN THAT THAT
WON&apos;T HAPPEN.
&gt;&gt; BUT IN A PERFECT WORLD,
WHAT&apos;S THE TIMELINE IN A
PERFECT WORLD OUR PLANS WOULD
BE TO START SOMETIME NEXT YEAR
,YOU KNOW, SPRING OR FALL
DEPENDING ON OF COURSE THE
APPROVAL ON THE DOCK TO
PLANNING THE FINISHING THE
PLANNING DOCUMENTS AND
SUBMITTING FOR PERMITS SO YOU
KNOW, WE WE&apos;VE BEEN WORKING
WITH STAFF FOR A WHILE ON THIS
PROJECT BECAUSE EVERYBODY
RECOGNIZES AND I APPRECIATE ALL
THE COMMENTS SO FAR IT&apos;S BEEN
EXTREMELY CHALLENGING WORKING
THROUGH ALL OF THE LIMITATIONS
SIDE.
YOU KNOW, WE WERE WE KNEW THAT
GOING IN LOCATION WE FELT WAS
VERY ATTRACTIVE BUT KNEW WAS
CHALLENGING.
SO OUR HOPES, YOU KNOW, ARE TO
START THAT.
I MEAN WE&apos;RE OUR COMPANY HAS
BEEN AROUND FOR A VERY LONG
TIME.
WE&apos;RE ACTIVELY BUILDING FOR
PROJECTS RIGHT NOW WE OF WHICH
WE STARTED IN THE LAST 60 DAYS.
SO WE HOPE WE&apos;LL BE ABLE TO
BUILD THIS AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; ONE SHIB BREAK GROUND WHAT&apos;S
THE TIME AND I GUESS THAT&apos;S THE
BUILD TIME IMPACT TO THAT
PROBABLY YOU KNOW I&apos;M NOT THE
CONSTRUCTION EXPERT BUT I WOULD
SAY SOME TIME IN THE RANGE
OF TWENTY TO TWENTY FOUR MONTHS
WE WOULD BE MY GUESS YEAH.
IT&apos;S GOING TO TAKE A LITTLE BIT
OF TIME TO DO THE UNDERGROUND
GARAGE, SOME OF THE LOGISTICS
ON THE SITE, THE INFRASTRUCTURE
FIRST CONCEPT.
THANK YOU.
OK THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; WHICH ONE SMALL THING I WANT
TO ECHO THE REST OF THE
COMMISSIONER&apos;S COMMENTS AROUND
DOING THE PROJECT, ADDING THE
HOUSING, DOING THE CONVERSION
THE CARE THAT YOU SEEM TO BE
TAKING WITH THE ELECTRIFICATION
AND SOLAR WOULD LOVE TO SEE
MORE SOLAR ON THE ROOFTOP BUT I
GUESS YOU&apos;VE PUT IN WHAT YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO PUT IN ONE THING WAS
JUST ON THE BIKE RACKS YOU HAVE
IN THE SITE PLANS JUST THE
STANDARD HOOP AND I WILL SEND
THIS TO MR. CHANG FOR STAFF
CONSIDERATION BUT THERE IS A
BETTER RACK THAT YOU CAN PUT IN
WHERE YOU CAN GET MORE BIKE
RACKS AND IT&apos;S THE BOSTON BIKE
RACK.
IT&apos;S BLACK, IT&apos;S POWDER COATED
POST WITH A RING TRACK SO THAT
YOU CAN LOCK MORE BIKES TO IT
IN THE SAME SPACE THAT YOU&apos;VE
ALLOCATED WHICH IF THIS WILL BE
ACTIVATED POTENTIALLY FOR
STUDENTS OR YOUNG PROFESSIONALS
THAT ARE HERE, THERE&apos;S JUST A
LOT OF OPPORTUNITY FOR THEM TO
LEVERAGE BIKES AND THEN BE ABLE
TO MOVE FROM THIS SITE
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
&gt;&gt; SO JUST WANTED TO PUT THAT
ON YOUR RADAR SCREEN.
ANYTHING ELSE?
OK, ARE WE READY TO WRAP THIS
UP AND HAVE A VOTE?
OK, LET&apos;S DO ROLL CALL VOTE OK.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SORRY WHO WAS THE
ORIGINAL MOTION MOVED BY IN
SECOND MOVE BY MILLISECOND BY
OK IF WE&apos;RE ALREADY FOR VOTED
THIS TIME COMMISSIONER MILLS
YES COMMISSIONER RANDALL YES
COMMISSIONER IT YES
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS YES
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
&gt;&gt; YES COMMISSIONER THIS YES.
&gt;&gt; AND THANK YOU FOR THE
ELECTRIFICATION AND
COMMISSIONER.
YES COMMISSIONER CLARK IS
ABSOLUTE AND COMMISSIONER WHITE
YES IT PROJECT IS APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU ALL.
OK WE GIVE ME A MINUTE TO SHIFT
AROUND SOME PEOPLE HERE ALREADY
SO WE WILL BE MOVING ON TO
EIGHT B WHICH IS TWO FIVE OH
TWO PACKARD STREET ALL READY.
THIS IS THE GEORGE SITE PLAN
FOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL A PROPOSAL TO CONVERT
TWENTY THREE THOUSAND FOUR
HUNDRED AND SIXTY TWO SQUARE
FEET OF RETAIL SPACE ON THE
GROUND FLOOR TO FORTY TWO
RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
NEW DWELLING UNITS WILL INCLUDE
APPROXIMATELY TWO HUNDRED AND
FIVE SQUARE FEET OF MEZZANINE
SPACE FOR A TOTAL OF EIGHT
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET OF NEW FLOOR AREA.
IF YOU ALL WOULDN&apos;T MIND MOVING
YOUR CONVERSATION TO THE SIDE
THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
NEW DWELLING UNITS WILL INCLUDE
APPROXIMATELY 200 205 SQUARE
FEET OF MEZZANINE SPACE FOR A
TOTAL OF EIGHT THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET OF NEW
FLOOR AREA RELOCATE A SOLID
WASTE AREA NORTH TO DRIVE FROM
ITS CURRENT LOCATION TO THE
LOCATION SOUTH OF THE NORTH
DRIVE AND ADD TO BICYCLE
PARKING SPACES SIX POINT FIVE
TO ACRES ZONE C1 B OR COMMUNITY
CONVENIENT CENTER STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL.
OK SO WE WILL START WITH THE
PETITIONER PRESENTATION WHICH
WILL BE UP TO TEN MINUTES.
HELLO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
MY NAME IS KEN GOLD AND VICE
PRESIDENT SOMERSET DEVELOPMENT.
WE ARE A NEW JERSEY BASED
DEVELOPER.
WE HAVE PROJECTS HERE IN ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN AND AROUND THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY AND IN
SUBURBAN ILLINOIS AND IN THE
VILLAGE OF HOFFMAN ESTATES.
I&apos;M JOINED TONIGHT ONLINE ON
ZOOME BY MY ENGINEER ANDREW
WEISSMANN, MY ARCHITECT STEVE
DIJKSTRA FROM HUB&apos;S AND BLACK
AND MY ATTORNEY ONE AND FROM
HONIGMAN I&apos;M HOPING I GET TO
PAY HIM BY THE WORD TONIGHT SO
AND ADDITIONALLY I AM JOINED BY
ADAM RICH ADAM RICHARDS WHO IS
A SPECIALIST FROM IBRO WHO
HANDLES VAPOR BARRIER
MITIGATION SYSTEMS AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION
SYSTEMS.
&gt;&gt; THIS PROJECT I KNOW HAS
ALONG HISTORY WITH A LOT
OF ISSUES WITH THE PREVIOUS
DEVELOPER AND AND YOU KNOW,
THERE WERE A LOT
OF CONSTRUCTION ISSUES AND YOU
KNOW, WE&apos;RE NOT HERE TO TALK
ABOUT THE PAST SO I JUST WANT
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT, YOU KNOW,
WE KNOW WE KNOW WHAT HAPPENED
HERE.
&gt;&gt; WE WERE UNDER CONTRACT TO
BUY THIS PIECE BACK IN DECEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE.
WE RECENTLY CLOSED IN JUNE AND
THE ENTIRE TIME THAT WE WERE
UNDER CONTRACT THROUGH NOW WE
HAVE BEEN MARKETING THE RETAIL
SPACE.
I HAVE NOT HAD A SINGLE PHONE
CALL.
I HAVE NOT HAD A SINGLE
REQUEST.
I HAVE NOT HAD A SINGLE TOUR.
THERE&apos;S NO INTEREST IN THE
SPACE AND THAT IS WHY WE ARE
LOOKING TO TURN THE SPACE INTO
MORE UNITS TO GENERATE, YOU
KNOW, MORE MORE HOUSING FOR THE
COMMUNITY AND A BETTER OVERALL
PRODUCT ALL THE UNITS WILL BE
ONE BEDROOMS AND ALL OF THE
UNITS WILL BE FULLY ELECTRIFIED
PRODUCTS, APPLIANCES.
AND WITH THAT I THINK IT&apos;S I
THINK I&apos;LL HAND IT OFF TO
ANDREW TO WALK THROUGH THE SITE
PLANT JUST TO SHOW YOU THAT
WE&apos;RE REALLY NOT CHANGING
ANYTHING.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S JUST THE INTERIOR
SPACES.
GOOD EVENING.
MAKE SURE MEMBERS MY NAME IS
ANDREW WEISSMANN, CIVIL
ENGINEER FOR THE PROJECT NO ONE
CAN ENGINEER HAS BEEN INVOLVED
IN THIS PROJECT VARIOUS
INCARNATIONS FOR MANY YEARS.
FIRST I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK THE
STAFF FOR THEIR ASSISTANCE
BRINGING THIS PROJECT IN FRONT
OF YOU TONIGHT WE&apos;RE VERY
EXCITED ABOUT THE IMPROVEMENTS
TO THE GEORGE AND LOOK FORWARD
GO FORWARD WITH THOSE
IMPROVEMENTS.
I WOULD LIKE TO LET YOU KNOW
THE IMPROVEMENTS ARE BASICALLY
RESTRICTED TO THE EXISTING
BUILDING INSIDE THE EXISTING
BUILDING EXTERNALLY THERE ARE
NO IMPROVEMENTS PROPOSED WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF RELOCATING THE
TRACTION CLOSURE ON THE NORTH
SIDE OF THE DRIVE TO OF THE
BUILDING TO THE NORTH SIDE
DRIVE IF I COULD SHARE SHARE
THIS SHOW YOU RENDERED A COPY I
BUT THAT IS THE ONLY CHANGE
EXTERNALLY THE PARKING COUNT
SHALL REMAIN THE SAME WITH THE
ADDITIONAL RESIDENTIAL
UNITS WE
ARE ADDING THREE INTERNAL
PARKING SPACES IN THE GARAGE
STRUCTURE AND THAT IS PRETTY
MUCH ALL WE ARE DOING FROM THE
CIVIL ENGINEERING STANDPOINT ON
THE SITE.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE A WAY WE CAN SHOW
THE MANAGER THIS SCREEN RIGHT
NOW?
SURE YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO GO
OK YOU GOT EXCITED THIS AREA
INSIDE YOU THIS IS WHERE THE
EXISTING RETAIL SPACES ARE
BEING CONVERTED INTO
RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
THE TRASH ENCLOSURE CURRENTLY
IS LOCATED ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE BUILDING HERE IS GOING
TO SHIFT TO THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE DRIVE HERE AND THE
PARKING COUNT WILL REMAIN THE
SAME.
THIS IS A LOADING AREA THAT&apos;S
JUST BEING SHIFTED AS A RESULT
OF THIS CHANGE TO THE TRACTION
CLOSURE CONFIGURATION
.
&gt;&gt; I CAN LET THE GUYS GO
THROUGH WHAT THE ARCHITECT
COPSON BLACK IS PROPOSING AS
FAR AS THE FLOOR PLANS GO GOES.
I JUST WANT TO SHOW YOU THESE
FOUR PLAN DRAWINGS AND
ELEVATION&apos;S
STEVE
THESE SEVERE
MUTED YEAH.
HE&apos;S THERE.
HE&apos;S IN THERE YOU GO
, STEVE
ARE
YOU SEEING ANYTHING?
STEVE WE CAN&apos;T HEAR YOU IF YOU
WE DON&apos;T SEE HIM AS A AS A BOX
ON THE SCREEN.
I SEE HIM AS A BOX.
YEAH, HE&apos;S THERE.
HE&apos;S NOT HERE.
SO I CAN GO THROUGH WHAT&apos;S
HAPPENING HERE CONTINUING THIS
CONVERSATION.
THIS IS EXISTING BE THIS IS THE
EXISTING RETAIL SPACE WHICH IS
GOING TO BE CONVERTED TO THE
FORTY TWO UNITS.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS HALF A MIRROR IMAGE
OF THAT&apos;S PORTION HERE AND HERE
IS A MIRROR IMAGE.
SO THE EXTENT RETAIL CONVERSION
THE RESIDENTIAL IS REPRESENTED
THESE CLOUTED AREAS HERE, HERE
AND A COUPLE OF UNITS WILL BE
PROPOSED IN THIS BOTTOM UP
PORTION OF THE BUILDING AND IF
YOU GO BACK TO THE FOUR POINTS
FOR A SECOND SO SO YEAH THESE
ARE SO THESE THESE UNITS
THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S ESSENTIALLY
FOUR DIFFERENT SECTIONS THAT
WILL BE CONVERTING AS YOU CAN
SEE HERE, THESE ARE SEPARATE
THE LARGER SPACES AROUND
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN NINE AND TEN
THOUSAND.
THE SMALLER SPACES BETWEEN
ELEVEN AND FIFTEEN HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET WILL BE THESE WILL
BECOME ONE BEDROOM WITH LOFTS
AS WAS MENTIONED EARLIER THAT
WE&apos;RE PUTTING LIKE A LOFT SPACE
UP THEIR SLEEVES WILL BE ONE
BEDROOM, ONE BATH UNITS WALK
OUT DIRECTLY TO THE PARKING
THAT&apos;S IN FRONT AND BEHIND
THEIR BACK TO BACK THERE WILL
BE ONE BEDROOM, ONE AND A HALF
BATH AND AGAIN ALL HAVE
ELECTRIC APPLIANCES AND WE&apos;RE
REALLY JUST KEEPING THE
ARCHITECTURE IN LINE WITH
WHAT&apos;S THERE JUST YOU KNOW,
REPLACING THE BACK SIDES OF THE
SPACES CURRENTLY ARE SOLID
WALLS.
SO WE&apos;LL BE PUTTING IN WINDOWS
AND THE DOORS WILL JUST LINE
UP.
YOU KNOW, WITH THE UNITS AND
IT&apos;LL BE, YOU KNOW, PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
SO I GUESS IF STEVE&apos;S UNABLE TO
TALK I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT WE HAVE
MUCH MORE TO SAY.
YEAH, I&apos;M SORRY BUT HE IS A
PANELIST.
I&apos;M NOT SURE WHY YOU KNOW,
WE&apos;VE ONLY BEEN DEALING WITH
ZOOME FOR LIKE TWO AND A HALF
YEARS.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE NEED TO SOMEHOW
PROMOTE HIM AS A CO-HOST BUT
OK.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHTY.
WELL WHY DON&apos;T WE MOVE ON TO
THE STAFF PRESENTATION THEN IF
YOU FEEL LIKE THAT MAKES SENSE
WOULD YOU LIKE TO START SHARING
OR SHALL I KEEP IT OPEN?
&gt;&gt; MR KHAN, WOULD YOU LIKE HIM
SHARING STRUCTURE FOR NOW BUT
BE PREPARED TO OPEN IT BACK UP
FOR THE CONVERSATION.
YEAH THANK YOU.
I DO WANT TO PROVIDE A LITTLE
BIT OF HISTORY TO THIS SITE FOR
THOSE FOLKS WHO MAY BE LESS
FAMILIAR WITH IT.
THIS IS THE SITE THAT WAS THE
OLD GEORGETOWN MALL WHICH WAS
ONE OF THE EARLY SHOPPING MALLS
IN ANN ARBOR HAD KROGER A
SHOPPING CENTER AND AND OTHER
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS INCLUDING
A DRY CLEANER.
THIS SITE STRUGGLED AFTER BEING
IN THE 60S AT THE TIME OF THE
1990S 2000S HIT THE SITE WAS
STRUGGLING TO MAINTAIN TENANTS
AND EVENTUALLY THE SITE WAS
SOLD TO A DEVELOPER WHO CAME IN
WITH THE ORIGINAL PROPOSAL.
OWNERSHIP CHANGED DURING EARLY
CONSTRUCTION.
IT WAS EVENTUALLY ACQUIRED BY A
PETITIONER WHO INDICATED UP
THERE THAT THEY HAD BEEN
ATTEMPTING TO LEASE THE RETAIL
SPACES.
AS I THINK SOME OF YOU KNOW THE
SITE WAS ORIGINALLY
CONTAMINATED FROM THE DRY
CLEANING OPERATION BUT THE
CONTAMINATION WAS CONTAINED
BECAUSE THERE ARE HEAVY CLAY
SOILS IN THE AREA.
SO THE CONTAMINATION WAS
REMOVED AND VAPOR BARRIERS WERE
INSTALLED.
THE PETITIONER IS GOING TO BE
WORKING WITH THE COUNTY WITH
REGARD TO MAINTAINING THOSE
VAPOR BARRIERS DURING DURING
AND AFTER CONSTRUCTION.
EVERY TIME I&apos;VE SPOKEN TO
SOMEONE WHO&apos;S INQUIRED ABOUT
THIS, THE SITE, WHETHER IT&apos;S
PROSPECTIVE OWNERS OR ANYONE I
I&apos;VE TALKED ABOUT THE INTEREST,
THE STRONG INTEREST THE CITY
HAS IN YOU KNOW, IN A RETAIL
COMPONENT HERE THAT THAT WE
REALLY FEEL THAT THIS THIS PART
OF TOWN DOES HAVE A GREAT DEAL
OF RETAIL EVEN THOUGH THERE ARE
A LOT OF ROOFTOPS OUT HERE AND
AS THE MINISTER INDICATED
EARLIER IN THEIR PRESENTATION,
THEY&apos;VE STRUGGLED TO FIND
RETAILERS WHO&apos;VE BEEN WILLING
TO TAKE YOU TAKE THE PLUNGE
HERE.
SO I DO WANT TO SAY AS STAFF
WE&apos;RE DISAPPOINTED TOO THAT
THERE&apos;S NOT A MIXED USE
COMPONENT.
HOWEVER, CODE DOES NOT REQUIRE
A MIXED COMPONENT CODE REQUIRES
CODE ALLOWS RESIDENTIAL USES AS
A IS AS A PERMITTED PRINCIPLE
USE AND SO STAFF IS SUPPORTIVE
OF THE PROJECT BECAUSE IT IS
CONSISTENT.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO READ THE
RECOMMENDATION STAFF RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL OF THE SITE PLAN
BECAUSE IT COMPLIES WITH ALL
APPLICABLE LOCAL STATE AND
FEDERAL ORDINANCES STANDARDS
AND REGULATIONS.
IT WOULD NOT CAUSE PUBLIC OR
PRIVATE NUISANCE AND IT WILL
NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL EFFECT
ON PUBLIC HEALTH SAFETY FOR
WELFARE.
AND THAT&apos;S THE SUMMARY OF OF MY
REPORT.
THANK YOU MR KHAN.
WE WILL MOVE ON NOW TO PUBLIC
HEARING AND THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE TO SPEAK
UP TO THREE MINUTES.
WE&apos;LL CALL FIRST INDIVIDUALS
HERE PRESENT IN THE ROOM AND
THEN REMOTELY TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE REINS HAND
FEATURE A VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
END OUR MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME YOU WILL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT HERE
THAT WOULD LIKE TO BE ABLE TO
SPEAK
?
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS WARREN SERGEANT.
I LIVE TO EIGHT ONE FIVE
INVERWAY.
I MOVED TO THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
NEAR THE GEORGETOWN MALL
BECAUSE I WANTED WALKABILITY
AND I WALKED TO KROGER AND RITE
AID AND THE POST OFFICE AND THE
DRY CLEANER AND THIS IS NOT
ABOUT THE CITY CODE .
THIS IS ABOUT OUR STATED GOALS
TO INCREASE WALKABILITY,
SUSTAINABILITY ALL THAT KIND
OF STUFF AND ALSO ABOUT FAITH
IN AGREEMENTS THAT ARE MADE
WHEN THAT BUILDING WAS BUILT
THERE WAS AN AGREEMENT WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD, WITH THE
COMMUNITY THAT WE WOULD HAVE A
MIXED USE FACILITY WITH RETAIL
,WITH SERVICES WE HAVE NOW
LOST TO KROGER&apos;S.
WE&apos;VE LOST THE PACKARD FOOD
CO-OP, WE LOST FOOD AND DRUG
MART.
WE&apos;VE LOST ALL KINDS
OF SERVICES THAT EXISTED IN
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD.
MY WALKABILITY WALKED AWAY FROM
ME AND THIS HAS GOT TO STOP IF
WE TALK ABOUT GETTING OUT
OF CARS.
WELL, HOW ARE PEOPLE GOING TO
GET THEIR GROCERIES AND THEIR
PHARMACY AND ALL OF THAT KIND
OF STUFF?
AND ALSO IF WE LET THE
DEVELOPER DO THIS, WHAT&apos;S TO
STOP THE NEXT DEVELOPER FROM
WINK WINK NOD NOD WITH
AGREEMENTS TO HAVE MIXED USE
LIVABLE
COMMUNITY FACILITIES?
I THINK THIS IS A REALLY BAD
DECISION TO ALLOW AND I OPPOSE
IT VEHEMENTLY.
THE OTHER THING I THINK YOU
SHOULD KNOW IS THAT I THOUGHT I
WAS ALONE IN THIS BUT WHEN WAS
GOING THROUGH THE SITE TO LOOK
FOR THE RETAIL THAT WAS
SUPPOSED TO BE PLANNED?
MY NEIGHBOR AND I WERE SHUT OUT
OF THE SITE AND THIS HAPPENED
TO OTHER PEOPLE AS WELL.
I FOUND OUT YESTERDAY TALKING
TO FOLKS AT THE POLLS THIS IS
REALLY A BAD DEAL.
BACK TO THE DRAWING BOARD IF
YOU WANT RETAIL THERE DON&apos;T
CHARGE RENTS THE DOWNTOWN LEVEL
OR DOWNTOWN CHICAGO LEVEL
RENTS.
HOW ABOUT REASONABLE PRICES AND
FOOD DRUGS AND SERVICES?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT HERE
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON
THIS PROJECT?
OK, SING ONE.
WE WILL MOVE TO THE VIRTUAL
LINE.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYBODY?
YES WE HAVE SEVERAL CALLERS SO
CALLER WITH THE LAST THREE
DIGITS FIVE NINE THREE YOU CAN
NOW ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES YOU NEED ON MUTE CALLER
WITH THE LAST THREE DIGIT FIVE
NINE THREE IF YOU CAN AND YOU
CAN ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION
ASKING THEM TO A NEW
YEAR GO OK CAN YOU HEAR ME NOW?
YES MAP I MADE IT I JUST WANTED
TO SAY THAT I AM AVAILABLE HERE
VIA PHONE.
MY COMPUTER HAS SOUNDED TOO SO
IF THERE ARE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
I COULD BE AVAILABLE TO ADDRESS
I&apos;D BE HAPPY TO DO SO.
IN FACT IF THAT WORKS OVER THE
PHONE LINE HERE THAT&apos;S ALL I
REALLY NEED TO SAY I THINK CAN
DO AND CAN BE ARCHITECTURAL
ISSUES PRETTY WELL.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
OK SO ALL RIGHT THIS TIME THEN
WE WILL GO TO LOOKS LIKE ELLEN
ABRAMSON IF YOU CAN PLEASE YOU
AND YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
YES.
HI THANK YOU.
MY NAME&apos;S ELLEN ABRAMSON.
I LIVE AT THIRTY TWO OH FOUR
FIVE WERE CAUGHT.
I&apos;M ABOUT A TEN MINUTE WALK
FROM THE GEORGE AND A LONGTIME
RESIDENTS ALIKE.
WELL REMEMBER THE LITTLE GEORGE
TOM WE HAD IN ALL THE WONDERFUL
AMENITIES THERE SO I&apos;M
REPRESENTING MYSELF AND
NEIGHBORS.
I SPOKEN WITH JUST AS THE
PREVIOUS PERSON WHO CAME UP AND
SPOKE IN PERSON.
I THERE&apos;S BEEN A LOT
OF EXCITEMENT AMONG THE
NEIGHBORS AND A LOT OF PATIENCE
OVER MANY, MANY YEARS TO SEE
SOME RETAIL LOCKABLE RETAIL
INSTALLED THERE.
YOU KNOW, I HAVE A FRIEND WHO I
THOUGHT WILL MEET FOR COFFEE .
IT&apos;S SORT OF MIDWAY BETWEEN
WHERE WE LIVE.
MY DAUGHTER WAS BABYSITTING FOR
CHILDREN WHO WERE SO EXCITED.
OF COURSE THESE CHILDREN HAVE
GROWN UP NOW BUT YOU KNOW THERE
WILL BE A MAYBE THERE BE A
CANDY SHOP, MAYBE THERE&apos;D BE AN
ICE CREAM STORE.
THIS IS ALL TO SAY THAT THE
NEIGHBORS I THINK BY AND LARGE
WOULD BE VERY, VERY
DISAPPOINTED IF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THIS
PROPOSAL.
WE&apos;VE BEEN PATIENT.
WE&apos;VE HAD TRUST IN THE
AGREEMENT AND HAVING OUR TRUST
BROKEN DOESN&apos;T DOES NOT FEEL
GOOD.
I ALSO AGREE PERHAPS THERE ARE
WAYS TO INTEREST TENANTS.
I&apos;M QUITE SURE THAT THERE IS A
PRICE POINT FOR RENTAL FEES
THAT WILL BRING INTERESTED
PARTIES AND AND I&apos;M GOING TO
SAY THAT MAYBE THERE IS SOME
SORT OF COMPROMISE, MAYBE
RETAIN SOME RETAIL AND MAKE A
FEW ADDITIONAL RESIDENTIAL
UNITS.
PERHAPS THERE&apos;S ROOM FOR
COMPROMISE HERE.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD STILL LIKE TO SEE
SOME RETAIL.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OK, OK MR JAMES TOMORROW YOU
MAY I&apos;M A MUTANT.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION.
THANKS.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES WE GOT A GOOD GRADE THANKS.
AND MEMBERS OF MY COMMISSION
PUT MY TWO CENTS IN REGARDING
ON THE GEORGE PROPOSAL I READ A
LARGE NUMBER OF THE LETTERS
OPPOSING THIS AMENDMENT CHANGE
AND I AGREE WITH THEM.
AS JEFF MENTIONED, THIS WAS
ONCE A MAJOR RETAILERS SERVICE
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
LOOK GUYS, I REALLY APPRECIATE
YOUR EFFORTS TO INCREASE THE
SUPPLY OF HOUSING THROUGH THIS
AND YOU&apos;RE A VERY EXCELLENT
EFFORTS THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
HOWEVER, I REALLY THINK THROUGH
ALL OF THIS YOU&apos;VE BEEN MAKING
CHANGES TO BENEFIT THE
DEVELOPER OR IN THIS CASE THE
OWNERS WILL ASK ENOUGH IN
RETURN.
YOU&apos;RE NOT DEMANDING ENOUGH IN
TERMS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING AS
IN NEARBY COMMUNITIES HAVE
DONE.
YOU HAVEN&apos;T DONE ENOUGH TO
PROTECT NATURAL FEATURES FROM
THE LAND TO DO SO AS OTHER
PEOPLE MENTIONED ON THIS ONE,
THE EXISTING STRONG
NEIGHBORHOOD RESIDENTS WERE
PROMISED A VITAL NEW
REPLACEMENT FOR HER SON MOLLE.
AND WHILE TO BE SURE THE IMPACT
OF A PANDEMIC CANNOT BE
DISCOUNTED, THIS ISN&apos;T A
FOREVER OCCURRENCE.
RETAIL AND SHOP SPACE IS
IMPORTANT FOR RESIDENTS SOME
PARTICULARLY NEW SMALL
BUSINESSES AND OTHERS TO
JUSTIFY AND CREATE VIABLE
TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT
ALONG IMPORTANT TRAVEL NODES.
WE REALLY NEED TO INSIST ON THE
ENVIRONMENT TO CREATE HEALTHY
COMMUNITIES, KEEP THE LOCAL
SHOP OPTION IN PLACE PERHAPS IN
THIS SITUATION AND REVIEW
OF THE CURRENT RETAIL SPACES IN
ORDER.
I THINK THAT SAID AGAIN I AGREE
WITH OTHERS HAVE SAID HERE
LET&apos;S WORK WITH THE COMMUNITY
AND GET SOMETHING RIGHT HERE
AND ACT ON BEHALF OF THE
COMMUNITY.
THANKS GUYS FOR CONSIDERING MY
REMARKS.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OK, NEXT UP CALLER WITH THE
LAST THREE DIGITS FIVE THREE
FOUR PLEASE ON MUTE AND YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
PRESENTING THIS IS TOM STALBERG
AND I&apos;M CALLING FROM LOWERTOWN
IN ANN ARBOR ABOUT BEING
ANOTHER LOCATION THAT LOST ITS
RETAIL.
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT STORY OVER
HERE.
I&apos;M ALSO A COMMERCIAL LANDLORD
MIXED-USE LANDLORD DURING THE
PANDEMIC I GAVE MY COMMERCIAL
TENANTS FREE RENT FOR OVER TWO
YEARS SO THEY COULD SURVIVE AND
COME OUT AND BE ABLE TO OPEN UP
AGAIN AND THRIVE THERE I OPEN
BUILDING THE PLACE TO FULL
CAPACITY AND THRIVING AND
PAYING RENT AS A BUILDING OWNER
AS A BUSINESS OWNER WE HAVE A
RISK RETURN.
THIS IS ONE OF THOSE TIMES
WHERE THERE&apos;S SOME RISK NOBODY
FORESAW COVID IT DID A LOT
OF DAMAGE I THINK IN MICHIGAN A
THIRD OF THE FIGHTING AND BAR
ESTABLISHMENTS CLOSED THAT
BASED ON A LIQUOR LICENSE
REPORTING.
NO, IT&apos;S BEEN TOUGH AND RIGHT
NOW THE BUSINESSES THAT WENT
OUT OF BUSINESS HAVE REDUCED
THE PROPERTIES FOR WHAT COULD
COME IN HERE IF THESE UNITS
WERE REASONABLY REASONABLY
PRICED, COMPETITIVELY PRICED,
EVEN PRICED AT A LOSS THEY
COULD GET TENANTS IN HERE.
&gt;&gt; NOW THE COMPETITION IS
REDUCED BECAUSE PEOPLE BY COVID
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD NEEDS
WALKABLE RETAIL JUST LIKE MY
NEIGHBORHOOD NEEDS WALKABLE
RETAIL WILL BE DENIED OUR VERY
DIFFERENT SET OF CIRCUMSTANCE
AND OUR DEVELOPER EVEN CLOSED
OUR LOCAL MARKET TO PUT IN
THEIR SALES OFF.
THAT WAS INSULT TO INJURY FOR
US.
I&apos;M LOOKING FOR OTHER PEOPLE
EXPERIENCE THE SAME THING ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF TOWN.
AS YOU KNOW I&apos;M A LONGTIME
ADVOCATE OF TRANSIT ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES THAT I
DO AGREE SOME OF THE WAY TO
HANDLE OUR CURRENT TRANSIT
ZONING ISSUES INCLUDING THE
MASS REZONING THE PACKARD IS ON
THE LIST OF QUARTERS TO BE
RESOLVED BEFORE I GOT THE
COMMERCIAL AND THEN TURN AROUND
IN A VERY NEAR FUTURE MASS
RESULT THIS QUARTER TO SEE ONE
LOOKING FOR MIXED-USE YOU&apos;RE
KIND OF GOING BACKWARDS RIGHT
NOW.
WE&apos;RE NOT GOING TO HIT OUR
EIGHT ZERO GOALS IF WE DON&apos;T
HAVE THE MIXED-USE PART
OF MIXED-USE THE COMMERCIAL
RETAIL PART OF MIXED-USE WE END
UP WITH ALL RESIDENTIAL OR IN
THE CASE THE LOWER DOWN NINETY
NINE AND A HALF PERCENT
RESIDENTIAL BUT WE DO NOT HAVE
THE MIX USED TO CREATE WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND PEOPLE WILL
GET IN THEIR CARS AND DRIVE AND
PEOPLE WORK ON CARS IF WE WANT
TO REDUCE PARKING WHICH IT
SEEMS LIKE WE DO WE CAN HAVE
PEOPLE OWNING THAT MANY CARS
WHICH THEY OWN IF WE DON&apos;T HAVE
THE MAKE THE COMMERCIAL PART
OF .
&gt;&gt; YES, THANK YOU.
IF WE&apos;RE TRYING TO LOOK FORWARD
THIS IS GOING BACKWARDS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OK, ANOTHER CALLER CALLER WITH
THE LAST THREE DIGITS ONE NINE
FOUR PLEASE ON YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS PLANNING
COMMISSION
.
YOU COULD BUT YOU&apos;RE STILL
NEEDED CALLER WITH THE LAST GO
YES WE CAN HEAR THEM.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS RITA MITCHELL CALLING
AND I&apos;M IN IN AGREEMENT WITH
THE PRIOR SPEAKERS WITH MY
CONCERN ABOUT ACTUALLY DRIVING
OUT RETAIL.
THAT&apos;S
BEEN PLANNED FOR AND
COUNTED ON BY PEOPLE WHO AGREED
INITIALLY TO HAVE THIS
ADDITIONAL HOUSING.
I KNOW THAT THIS IS A PRECEDENT
SETTING KIND OF DECISION AND I
HOPE THAT YOUR REALLY, REALLY
RECONSIDER HOW IT CAN BE
MANAGED FOR THIS CASE AND FOR
FUTURE ONES.
THERE IS A DEVELOPMENT NEAR THE
SOUTH MAIN STREET NEAR MADISON
WHICH HAS ALSO NO RETAIL THAT
WAS PROMISED IN ITS GROUND
FLOOR.
IT&apos;S CALLED THE YARD.
&gt;&gt; AND WHAT I&apos;M WORRIED ABOUT
IS THAT THE EXPENSE OF THE WERE
THE GROUND LEVEL BUSINESSES
THAT THAT WILL BE CHARGED BY
THE DEVELOPERS WILL DRIVE OUT
AND IT WILL DRIVE OUT WHAT
COULD BE OUR POTENTIAL LOCAL
SMALL BUSINESSES AND THINKING
FORWARD TO THE SEE ONE PLAN FOR
WHAT STADIUM NORTH MAPLE.
&gt;&gt; THOSE BUSINESSES THAT ARE
HERE ARE THERE BECAUSE THEY CAN
AFFORD THOSE RENTS IF NEW
DEVELOPMENT COMES IN AND BRINGS
IN AN EXPENSIVE WORKPLACE LIKE
THIS ONE THAT OUR LOCAL
BUSINESSES CAN&apos;T AFFORD, WE
WILL LOSE THOSE UNIQUE ELEMENTS
OF OUR COMMUNITY AND I REALLY
WANT THOSE TO STAY.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN WE REALLY NEED THEM
AND AND THAT IS THE CONTRARY TO
THE GOAL THAT HAS BEEN STATED
FOR THE DC ONE AND FOR THIS
KIND OF OF DEVELOPMENT.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M ASKING YOU TO
RECONSIDER THIS AND TO WORK
WITH THE DEVELOPER BECAUSE
THERE&apos;S SOMETHING ELSE THERE
HAS TO BE DONE AND I BELIEVE
IT&apos;S REDUCED THE PRICE OF THE
FLOORPLAN AND I WOULD LIKE TO
KNOW HOW MUCH OUTREACH THE
DEVELOPER DID TO SEEK TENANTS
BECAUSE IT SOUNDED RATHER
PASSIVE IN TERMS OF OF HOW
THERE WAS THERE WERE NO
ENCOUNTERS THAT LOOKS LIKE THAT
NO AND ASKED TO BE THERE DID HE
ASK PEOPLE TO LOOK FOR SPACE
AND TALK ABOUT RENOVATING OR
WHATEVER THE NEEDS ARE TO KEEP
?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S A QUESTION I HAVE.
BUT REALLY IF WE&apos;RE GOING TO
HAVE THE WALKABLE COMMUNITIES
WE WANT WE HAVE TO HAVE THE
WALKABLE SERVICES AND IDEALLY
THEY WILL BE SUPPORTED BY OUR
SMALL LOCAL BUSINESSES.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT WE WANT I THINK.
THANK YOU.
LIKE THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OK, CALLER WITH THE LAST
THREE DIGITS FIVE FOUR TWO
PLEASE ON YOUR PHONE YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION
CALLER WITH
THE LAST THREE DIGITS FIVE FOUR
TWO YOU CAN I&apos;M YOUR PHONE YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
MAY WE
CAN SKIP ONE MEMBER HAD WE DO
HAVE A ONE OTHER AND WE CAN
COME BACK TO CALLER FOR TWO IF
YOU WANT PAT LENINE IF YOU LIKE
ON YOUR PHONE YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; UH, THANK YOU.
UH, CAN YOU HEAR ME OK?
YEAH WE CAN WRITE UH MY NAME&apos;S
OUTLINE.
I&apos;M AN ATTORNEY WITH THE
HEIMANN FIRM.
UH I&apos;M HERE TONIGHT ON BEHALF
OF THE APPLICANT YOU PROBABLY
HEARD MR. GARLAND INTRODUCED
ME.
I PROMISE I&apos;LL BE BRIEF THAT I
WANT TO BEGIN BY THANKING
EVERYONE FOR THEIR THOUGHTFUL
COMMENTS TONIGHT.
YOU CAN TELL EVERYONE REALLY
CARES ABOUT THIS PROPERTY AND
THE COMMUNITY AT THE SAME TIME
I WANT TO EMPHASIZE THE FACT
THAT, YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE IN THE
MIDST THE SITE PLAN APPROVAL
APPLICATION AND AS PART OF THIS
APPLICATION ONE THING IS NOT IN
DISPUTE AND THAT IS THAT THE
PROPOSED SITE PLAN SATISFIES
ALL THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE
ORDINANCE.
YOU KNOW, THIS HAS BEEN
CONFIRMED BY CITY STAFF AND IT
WAS TAILORED TO COMPLY WITH ALL
THE REQUIREMENTS THE DEVELOPERS
AND A LOT OF TIME PRIOR TO
SUBMITTING APPLICATION TO BE
SURE THAT WHAT THEY WERE
PUTTING TOGETHER WOULD FIT
WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE
ORDINANCE.
&gt;&gt; SO I ASK YOU ALL TO KEEP
THAT IN MIND THROUGHOUT THE
DISCUSSION TONIGHT.
BEYOND THAT, ADDITIONAL
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING IS IS GOOD
FOR THE SITE AND GOOD FOR THE
COMMUNITY.
THERE&apos;S A TREMENDOUS DEMAND FOR
MORE HOUSING THROUGHOUT THE
STATE AND IN THE COMMUNITY HAS
A NEED FOR IT.
&gt;&gt; IN THIS CASE YOU HAVE THE
UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY TO ADD MORE
HOUSING WITHOUT ADDING NEW
STRUCTURES.
THE STRUCTURES ARE ALREADY
THERE.
WE&apos;LL JUST BE POPULATING THE
INSIDE OF THEM.
THEY ARE LONG BEEN VACANT AND
WE&apos;LL CERTAINLY CONTINUE TO BE
IF THIS PATH ISN&apos;T ISN&apos;T TAKEN
AGAIN.
WE&apos;VE HEARD A LOT TONIGHT ABOUT
TRYING TO MAKE RETAIL WORK HERE
NOTHING TO MAKE THE DEVELOPER
HAPPIER OR THE PETITIONER
HAPPIER THAN TO MAKE WORK
UNFORTUNATELY JUST HASN&apos;T.
&gt;&gt; BUT EVEN IF IT DID IT, THIS
SITE IS STILL PERMITTED TO BE
USED FOR MULTIFAMILY PURPOSES
AND IN FACT IT&apos;S ALREADY
PRIMARILY USED FOR THAT
PURPOSE.
&gt;&gt; SO UNFORTUNATELY, AS YOU
MIGHT IMAGINE, OUR CLIENT CAN&apos;T
BE ASKED TO SUSTAIN EMPTY SPACE
PARTICULARLY WHEN THERE&apos;S A
COMMUNITY FOR HOUSING AND
DEMAND FOR AN OPPORTUNITY TO
PARTICULARLY WHEN THERE&apos;S A
ESTABLISH IT WITHOUT
DEMAND FOR AN OPPORTUNITY TO
ESTABLISHING ADDITIONAL
ESTABLISH IT WITHOUT
STRUCTURES.
ESTABLISHING ADDITIONAL
SO WE THINK THAT&apos;S A PRETTY
STRUCTURES.
UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY AND WE HOPE
SO WE THINK THAT&apos;S A PRETTY
THE PLANNING COMMISSION SEES IT
UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY AND WE HOPE
THAT WAY AS WELL.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION SEES IT
YOU KNOW, FOR ALL THOSE REASONS
THAT WAY AS WELL.
WE WE HOPE THE PLANNING
YOU KNOW, FOR ALL THOSE REASONS
COMMISSION APPROVES THE PLAN
WE WE HOPE THE PLANNING
TONIGHT BECAUSE IT DOES COMPLY
COMMISSION APPROVES THE PLAN
WITH THE ORDINANCE AND IT DOES
TONIGHT BECAUSE IT DOES COMPLY
SERVE AN IMPORTANT COMMUNITY.
WITH THE ORDINANCE AND IT DOES
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
SERVE AN IMPORTANT COMMUNITY.
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
CONSIDERATION.
OK, SO AT THIS TIME LET&apos;S GO
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
BACK TO CALLER WITH THE LAST
OK, SO AT THIS TIME LET&apos;S GO
THREE DIGITS FIVE FOUR TWO UM
BACK TO CALLER WITH THE LAST
COULD YOU PLEASE ON MUTE
THREE DIGITS FIVE FOUR TWO UM
YOURSELF AND YOU THREE MINUTES
COULD YOU PLEASE ON MUTE
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
YOURSELF AND YOU THREE MINUTES
THAT YOU WANT TO START OR YES.
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
&gt;&gt; OUR SIXTH TIME YOU DO YOUR
THAT YOU WANT TO START OR YES.
PHONE STANADYNE STANADYNE.
&gt;&gt; OUR SIXTH TIME YOU DO YOUR
SORRY THIS IS OUR MAJOR CONCERN
PHONE STANADYNE STANADYNE.
SIX STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
SORRY THIS IS OUR MAJOR CONCERN
PHONE THAT&apos;S TO RAISE YOUR HAND
SIX STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
AND THEN START OH OH I DON&apos;T
PHONE THAT&apos;S TO RAISE YOUR HAND
HAVE START WITH THE LAST THREE
AND THEN START OH OH I DON&apos;T
DIGITS FIVE FOUR TWO OH RIGHT
HAVE START WITH THE LAST THREE
THERE WE GO.
DIGITS FIVE FOUR TWO OH RIGHT
&gt;&gt; RIGHT HELLO.
THERE WE GO.
HELLO.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT HELLO.
YES WE CAN HEAR YOU TO I REALLY
HELLO.
APOLOGIZE I HAVE TO SAY THAT
YES WE CAN HEAR YOU TO I REALLY
THE SYSTEM REALLY GIVES
APOLOGIZE I HAVE TO SAY THAT
CONFLICTING INFORMATION ON
THE SYSTEM REALLY GIVES
WHETHER OR NOT YOU&apos;RE DOING SIX
CONFLICTING INFORMATION ON
YOU STARTED NINE BUT THAT COULD
WHETHER OR NOT YOU&apos;RE DOING SIX
BE A PROBLEM FOR ANOTHER DAY
YOU STARTED NINE BUT THAT COULD
I&apos;M KEEPING TO THEIR LIMIT 1912
BE A PROBLEM FOR ANOTHER DAY
ANDERSON IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
I&apos;M KEEPING TO THEIR LIMIT 1912
AND I WOULD START BY SAYING I
ANDERSON IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
COMPLETELY AGREE WITH THE
AND I WOULD START BY SAYING I
PREVIOUS SPEAKER IN THAT THE
COMPLETELY AGREE WITH THE
ISSUE BEFORE YOU SEEMS LIKE
PREVIOUS SPEAKER IN THAT THE
IT&apos;S CLEAR THAT THE PRESENT
ISSUE BEFORE YOU SEEMS LIKE
OWNER IS ENTITLED TO DO THIS.
IT&apos;S CLEAR THAT THE PRESENT
BUT WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO DO IS
OWNER IS ENTITLED TO DO THIS.
TURN MY QUESTION TO THE
BUT WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO DO IS
COMMISSION INTO THE CITY
TURN MY QUESTION TO THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT TO LOOK AT
COMMISSION INTO THE CITY
WHY THESE RETAIL SALES ARE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT TO LOOK AT
HAPPENING OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
WHY THESE RETAIL SALES ARE
&gt;&gt; AND I WONDER IF YOU KNOW, MY
HAPPENING OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
BACKGROUND IS IN RETAIL AND I
&gt;&gt; AND I WONDER IF YOU KNOW, MY
HAVE CONSULTED IN RETAIL FOR
BACKGROUND IS IN RETAIL AND I
THIRTY YEARS AND I WONDER IF
HAVE CONSULTED IN RETAIL FOR
THERE&apos;S EXPERTIZE ON THE
THIRTY YEARS AND I WONDER IF
COMMISSION AROUND DEVELOPING
THERE&apos;S EXPERTIZE ON THE
RETAIL WITHIN MULTIUSE I WONDER
COMMISSION AROUND DEVELOPING
IF THERE IS ADVICE AND IN THE
RETAIL WITHIN MULTIUSE I WONDER
PLANNING DEPARTMENT FOR WORKING
IF THERE IS ADVICE AND IN THE
IN CONCERT WITH DEVELOPERS TO
PLANNING DEPARTMENT FOR WORKING
UNDERSTAND WHAT&apos;S ENTAILED IN
IN CONCERT WITH DEVELOPERS TO
MAINTAINING RETAIL AND
UNDERSTAND WHAT&apos;S ENTAILED IN
FREQUENTLY SMALL RETAIL.
MAINTAINING RETAIL AND
I GOT INTERESTED IN THIS 21
FREQUENTLY SMALL RETAIL.
ELEVEN PACKARD WHICH I THINK IS
I GOT INTERESTED IN THIS 21
A GREAT APARTMENT BUILDING THAT
ELEVEN PACKARD WHICH I THINK IS
IS PUT IN REALLY UNWORKABLE
A GREAT APARTMENT BUILDING THAT
RETAIL THAT IS BOUND TO FAIL.
IS PUT IN REALLY UNWORKABLE
IT&apos;S TINY AND YOU JUST HAVE TO
RETAIL THAT IS BOUND TO FAIL.
THINK LIKE HOW DOES THIS STUFF
IT&apos;S TINY AND YOU JUST HAVE TO
GET PAST?
THINK LIKE HOW DOES THIS STUFF
&gt;&gt; SO I GUESS MY MY QUESTION IN
GET PAST?
GENERAL IS AS A COMMISSION AND
&gt;&gt; SO I GUESS MY MY QUESTION IN
AS A PLANNING DEPARTMENT ARE
GENERAL IS AS A COMMISSION AND
YOU WORKING AT DEVELOPING
AS A PLANNING DEPARTMENT ARE
EXPERTIZE FOR ENSURING THIS
YOU WORKING AT DEVELOPING
KIND OF THING WILL WORK BECAUSE
EXPERTIZE FOR ENSURING THIS
TIME AND TIME AGAIN IN THE LAST
KIND OF THING WILL WORK BECAUSE
SIX YEARS AND IN THE US WE KNOW
TIME AND TIME AGAIN IN THE LAST
THAT IF YOU BUILD IT THEY WILL
SIX YEARS AND IN THE US WE KNOW
COME WILL HAPPEN.
THAT IF YOU BUILD IT THEY WILL
&gt;&gt; AND SO YOU KNOW, I GUESS I
COME WILL HAPPEN.
WOULD JUST CHALLENGE YOU GOING
&gt;&gt; AND SO YOU KNOW, I GUESS I
FORWARD IF THERE IS THAT
WOULD JUST CHALLENGE YOU GOING
EXPERTIZE LET US KNOW MORE
FORWARD IF THERE IS THAT
ABOUT IT AND PARTICIPATE MORE
EXPERTIZE LET US KNOW MORE
IN AND AND AGAIN GO BACK TO IN
ABOUT IT AND PARTICIPATE MORE
THIS CASE THIS IS LIKE LOCKING
IN AND AND AGAIN GO BACK TO IN
THE BARN AFTER THE HORSE IS
THIS CASE THIS IS LIKE LOCKING
GONE.
THE BARN AFTER THE HORSE IS
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, THE WORK ON THIS
GONE.
SHOULD HAVE BEEN DONE IN THE
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, THE WORK ON THIS
INITIAL PHASES.
SHOULD HAVE BEEN DONE IN THE
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
INITIAL PHASES.
I APPRECIATE YOUR THANK YOU.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
OK, COLOR WITH THE LAST THREE
I APPRECIATE YOUR THANK YOU.
DIGITS ZERO ZERO ZERO PLEASE ON
OK, COLOR WITH THE LAST THREE
YOUR MIKE AND ADDRESS THE
DIGITS ZERO ZERO ZERO PLEASE ON
PLANNING COMMISSION THREE
YOUR MIKE AND ADDRESS THE
MINUTES OR LESS
.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS TO BE SO WELCOME TO
SIX FOUR TO EIGHT IN THE
GEORGETOWN COMMUNITY AND I&apos;M
ALSO A SMALL BUSINESS OWNER IN
THE COMMUNITY AS WELL AND I&apos;M
CALLING BECAUSE I WANT TO KIND
OF ECHO WHAT MANY OF THE OTHER
SPEAKERS HAVE SAID THAT REALLY
SPEAKING TO THE PROMISES THAT
THE DEVELOPERS OF THE GEORGIA
MADE IN IN DECIDING TO BUILD
THIS DEVELOPMENT AND WHAT I
BELIEVE IS A PRETTY
DISINGENUOUS EFFORT THAT
THEY&apos;VE MADE TO ACTUALLY SECURE
RETAIL
IN THAT SPACE.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO POINT OUT IN CASE
THE PLANNING COMMISSION DOESN&apos;T
ALREADY KNOW THIS THAT AND
PEOPLE WHO RENT AT THE GEORGIA
ARE REQUIRED TO SHOW THREE AND
A HALF TIMES INCOME JUST TO
RENT THERE WHICH MAKES IT
FAIRLY INACCESSIBLE TO MANY
PEOPLE AND IT SOUNDS LIKE IT
MIGHT NOT BE SURPRISING IF THEY
WERE EXPECTING THAT OF PEOPLE
IN THEIR RETAIL SPACE AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK IT&apos;S A SAID MADE
THE RETAIL SPACE AFFORDABLE AND
COMPETITIVE.
&gt;&gt; THEY MIGHT NOT BE AN ISSUE
THAT THEY&apos;RE IN SO IT FEELS
LIKE A PRETTY DISINGENUOUS
EFFORT ON THEIR PART TO DO THAT
ON AS MANY HAVE ALSO STATED,
LOOKING AT OUR SUSTAINABILITY
GOALS AND ALSO DESIRING
WALKABILITY IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD, I SPEAK FOR THAT
MYSELF BUT ALSO AMONG THE
NEIGHBORS IN THE COMMUNITY
WOULD BE A TREMENDOUS ASSET TO
SOMETHING THAT WAS BOUGHT BY
THE COMMUNITY THERE REALLY AND
ENCOURAGE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO TAKE THAT INTO
CONSIDERATION IN THEIR
DECISION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OK, IT IS SITE ONE MORE CALLER
ON THE LINE.
IS IT ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ PLEASE
ON YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
HI MY NAME IS ADAM DISCOVERED I
LIVE AT FOURTEEN THIRTY LAS
VEGAS DRIVE IN THE FORESWEAR
NEAR THE WEST STADIUM CORRIDOR
ALTHOUGH MY MY GRANDMOTHER MY
LATE GRANDMOTHER LIVED IN PINE
VALLEY APARTMENTS RIGHT NEAR
GEORGETOWN MALL AND I OFTEN
WENT THERE AS A KID I DO
BELIEVE THAT HAVING WALKABLE
GROCERIES AND OTHER BASIC DAILY
NEEDS IS ESSENTIAL TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND AN GOALS THAT
OUR NEEDS AS A COMMUNITY AND
ALSO AS SOCIETY AND HUMANITY.
HOWEVER, I UNDERSTAND THE
REALITY OF THIS SITUATION WITH
THIS PARTICULAR DEVELOPMENT.
I&apos;M JUST SAD AND DISAPPOINTED
THAT THE RETAIL IS NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN AND I WANT TO ECHO IT
WAS THE CALLER RIGHT RIGHT
BEFORE THE ONE BEFORE ME THAT
WE NEED TO FIGURE OUT HOW WE&apos;RE
GOING TO SOLVE THESE ISSUES
GOING FORWARD WITH FUTURE
DEVELOPMENTS AND HOPEFULLY WE
CAN FIGURE OUT WHY THIS THIS
HAPPENS AND FIX IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OK, I SEE NO MORE HANDS RAISED
AT THIS TIME.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; YOU YOU&apos;LL GET YOUR CHANCE.
I&apos;M GOING TO READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION WHICH IS THE NRA CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
APPROVES THE GEORGE SITE PLAN
TO GO TO PACKARD ROAD FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER SAUVé
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER DISH.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER DISH OK, WE WILL
CALL ON YOU WHEN WE&apos;RE READY.
YEAH.
AND YOU MIGHT WANT TO STAY
STANDING.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO THIS THIS THIS IS A
THIS IS A VERY COMPLICATED SITE
.
THE GEORGETOWN MALL HAD BEEN
EMPTY SINCE 2009 SO RETAIL
FAILED BEFORE THIS PROPOSAL
CAME UP AND I&apos;M NOT SAYING THAT
IT&apos;S IMPOSSIBLE FOR RETAIL TO
HAPPEN HERE BUT I WANT IT TO BE
CLEAR THAT NOTHING WAS REMOVED
TO CREATE THIS PROJECT EITHER
IN 2011 WHEN THE FIRST EFFORTS
TO DEVELOP IT BEGAN OR RECENTLY
NONE THE LESS WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE CRITICAL TO
OUR CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN AND
OUR TRANSIT CORRIDOR ZONING
EFFORT WILL NOT SERVE THE
PURPOSES THAT WE HOPE IF WE
CAN&apos;T SUCCEED IN HAVING MIXED
USE IN THOSE PROJECTS.
&gt;&gt; AND I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU
ARE NOT CURRENTLY ON THE
TRANSIT CORRIDOR THERE&apos;S
NOTHING THAT REQUIRES YOU TO DO
ANY OF THIS.
BUT IN ONE VIEW I FORGET WHICH
ONE OF YOU SAID WE WANT RETAIL
TO WORK IT JUST HASN&apos;T AND I
FEEL AN URGENT NEED TO ASK YOU
TO HELP ME UNDERSTAND WHY
BECAUSE WE NEED TO LEARN FROM
YOUR EXPERIENCE BECAUSE WE ARE
GOING TO MOVE FORWARD AND WE
WILL NEED TO SUCCEED.
&gt;&gt; SO I I I&apos;M GOING TO PROPOSE
A SERIES OF QUESTIONS AND I
WOULD LOVE YOU TO ANSWER AS
MUCH AS YOU CAN AND I WOULD
URGE YOU TO MAKE SURE YOU CAN
ANSWER EVERYTHING THAT I&apos;M
ASKING YOU NOW WHEN YOU COME
BEFORE COUNCIL.
SO I&apos;D LIKE TO KNOW HOW THE
RETAIL SPACE WAS PRICED
RELATIVE BOTH TO THE
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD AND
RELATIVE TO DOWNTOWN.
I&apos;D LIKE TO KNOW IF YOU REDUCED
THE PRICE IN ORDER TO TRY TO
ATTRACT RETAIL AND IF YOU
DIDN&apos;T, WHY NOT?
ARE THERE CONSTRAINTS ON YOU
THAT MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR YOU
TO REDUCE RETAIL PRICE?
&gt;&gt; AND I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO HEAR A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
CONFIGURATION OF THE SPACE AS I
LOOK AT WHAT YOU&apos;RE PLANNING TO
DO WITH THE SPACE, I FIND IT A
LITTLE DIFFICULT TO BELIEVE
THAT THERE WOULD EVER HAVE BEEN
A KROGER GROCERY STORE IN THAT
SPACE.
SO IT MAY IN PART, YOU KNOW, WE
MIGHT BE TALKING THERE MAY BE A
PROBLEM WITH CONFIGURATION HERE
.
I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO AND I REALIZE
I&apos;M ASKING A LOT SO IF YOU
FORGET THEM I CAN REMIND YOU OR
WHATEVER AND THEN JUST FINALLY
AH DO YOU HAVE CRITERIA THAT
YOU HAVE IN MIND WHEN YOU&apos;RE
ENTERTAINING TYPES OF RETAIL?
SO ARE THERE SOME KINDS
OF RETAIL THAT YOU FEEL MIX
BADLY WITH RESIDENTS
RESIDENCES?
&gt;&gt; I BELIEVE IS THAT WHAT I
MEANT THERE?
&gt;&gt; SO THINGS THAT CREATE AN
ODOR THAT PEOPLE MIGHT NOT WANT
TO LIVE ABOVE AND WOULD MAKE
THEM NOT PREFER YOUR HOUSING SO
AND THEN THERE&apos;S ALSO THE
QUESTION WHETHER AND THIS IS
SORT OF THE THE THING I&apos;M LEAST
INTERESTED IN BUT WHETHER
RETAILERS OR THEIR FINANCIAL
BACKERS ARE WORRIED ABOUT LOOK
AT PARKING WHEN THEY THINK
ABOUT WHETHER WE&apos;RE GOING TO
GIVE YOU A LOAN TO START UP,
THEY&apos;RE THE REASON WHY I&apos;M LESS
INTERESTED IN THAT IS BECAUSE
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT
WALKABILITY AND DENSITY AND SO
SOME OF THOSE MODELS ARE
ANTIQUATED AND IT&apos;S FRUSTRATING
FOR US THAT WE DEAL WITH
FINANCIERS WHO HAVE AN
ANTIQUATED MODEL.
&gt;&gt; BUT SO IF YOU COULD START AT
THE FRONT OF MY QUESTIONS, I&apos;D
APPRECIATE IT.
I&apos;D LIKE TO START WITH YOUR
VERY DETAILED QUESTION BY JUST
GIVING A LITTLE MORE BACKGROUND
AS TO WHAT SUMMERSET
DEVELOPMENT DOES AND WHAT WE
ARE SO GOOD AT AND IT IS
ESSENTIALLY EVERYTHING THAT HAS
BEEN SAID BY THE COMMUNITY HERE
WE ARE IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT
WE&apos;VE DONE, OUR DEVELOPMENTS,
OUR TRANSIT ORIENTED
WALKABILITY, NEW URBANIST THAT
IS THE CORE TENDENCY OF WHAT WE
DO.
I WOULD LOVE TO STAND HERE AND
TELL YOU THAT I COULD FILL THIS
SPACE UP WITH RETAIL.
I&apos;D LOVE TO DO THAT TO ANSWER
YOUR FIRST QUESTION I BELIEVE
WHICH WAS THE PRICING.
I THINK THAT WAS THE FIRST
QUESTION WE STARTED SOMEWHERE
BETWEEN TWENTY TO TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS TRIPLE NET BUT AT THE
SAME TIME I DIDN&apos;T GO OUT TO
MARKET AT THAT I WENT I THOUGHT
WE HIRED COLLIERS, JIM CHICANAS
EVERYONE HERE SEES HIS SIGNS
EVERYWHERE.
I SAID GO TO MARKET SEE DON&apos;T
EVEN GO OUT WITH LIKE WE DIDN&apos;T
GO OUT WITH A PRICE YOU KNOW I
TOLD HIM WHAT I WANTED BUT WE
DIDN&apos;T GO OUT WITH THE PRICE.
WE SAID GO OUT AND SEE WHAT&apos;S
OUT THERE.
I GOT NOTHING I GOT NO PHONE
CALLS.
I GOT NO TORSE.
I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO ADDRESS THE I
BOUGHT THIS WE BOUGHT THIS
BUILDING IN JUNE SO WHATEVER
WAS AGREED UPON SOME AGREEMENT?
YOU KNOW, I&apos;M NOT PRIVY TO
THAT.
I HAVE NO I&apos;M SORRY IF THERE
WAS SOMETHING DONE BUT YOU
KNOW, I JUST LIKE TO THROW OUT
THAT I&apos;M NOT GOING BACK ON
ANYTHING I PREVIOUSLY SAID
BECAUSE I DIDN&apos;T OWN THE
BUILDING UNTIL JUNE JUNE
OF THIS YEAR.
SO WE HAD STARTED SHOWING THE
BUILDING WHEN WE WERE AND WHEN
WE WENT TO CONTRACT IN DECEMBER
I HAD NO BITES, NO NOTHING.
THE PREVIOUS DEVELOPER WASN&apos;T
WASN&apos;T PARTICULARLY ACTIVE SO I
CAN&apos;T SPEAK TO WHAT HE WAS WHAT
HE WAS DOING OR WHAT PRICE HE
WAS THAT I CAN ONLY TELL YOU
WHAT WHAT I GET I WILL TELL YOU
THAT TO ME THE FIRST TIME THAT
I LOOKED AT THIS BUILDING WHICH
WAS IN OCTOBER OF 2000 AND
TWENTY TWO OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE
I IMMEDIATELY SAID RETAIL NEVER
WORK HERE AND THAT IS BECAUSE
OF THE CONFIGURATION OF THE
BUILDING IT SET DOWN BELOW THE
ROAD.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE&apos;S I THINK ABOUT A
SIX OR EIGHT FOOT RETAINING ALL
SO THE VISIBILITY IS POOR YOU
HAVE TO DRIVE IN UNDER THE
BUILDING TO GET TO THE RETAIL
AREA WHICH IS VERY CONFUSING.
NO ONE REALLY KNOWS HOW TO GET
IN THERE.
THERE&apos;S NO THERE&apos;S NO SIGNAGE.
THERE&apos;S NOWHERE TO PUT IF I
CAME HERE FOR A SIGNAGE PACKAGE
I NEED A VARIANCE BECAUSE I
NEED TO GO ON TOP OF THE
BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; IT THIS BUILDING WAS NOT
DESIGNED RIGHT IN ORDER TO GET
THE RETAIL TO WORK HERE.
I&apos;D LOVE TO PUT A KROGER&apos;S HERE
BUT KROGER&apos;S NEEDS TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
CONTIGUOUS.
I&apos;VE GOT A 10000 SQUARE FOOT
BLOCK, AN 1100 SQUARE FOOT
BLOCK AND HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
BLOCK AND A 10000 SQUARE FOOT
BLOCK WITH POOR VISIBILITY AND
POOR.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S I WANT NOTHING MORE
THAN THE RETAIL TO WORK IT.
IT JUST HASN&apos;T.
SO AND AGAIN, IT&apos;S NOT BECAUSE
OF PRICING.
IT&apos;S NOT BECAUSE OF POOR.
IT&apos;S NOT BECAUSE OF POOR
TRAFFIC.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S VISIBILITY LAYOUT AND
THE GENERAL MARKET.
RIGHT.
I MEAN IF I FOUND OUT ABOUT
THIS PROPERTY IN OCTOBER IF
YOU&apos;RE TELLING ME THAT IT WAS
HAD
ISSUES BACK TO 2009,
NOTHING THAT WE HEAR SITTING
CAN DO TO TO FIX THAT THERE&apos;S
NOT MUCH WE CAN DO TO FIX IT.
THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S A MARKET AND
THERE&apos;S SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
SO I&apos;M SORRY WHAT WAS YOUR WHAT
WAS YOUR NEXT QUESTION?
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW YOU YOU ACTUALLY
COVERED IT BECAUSE I ASKED YOU
IF YOU REDUCED THE PRICE BUT
SINCE YOU DIDN&apos;T HAVE REDUCED
IT TO ZERO I SAID GO TO THE
MARKET AND FIND OUT.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL FIND OUT WHAT DOES I
GUESS I COULD SAY WHAT DOES GO
OUT TO THE MARKET SO I HIRE A
BROKER AND HE HAS CONNECTIONS.
I MEAN I&apos;M THE GUY THAT SITS
BEHIND THE DESK AND STANDS IN
FRONT OF COMMUNITY BOARDS.
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T GO OUT KNOCKING
ON DOORS.
I HIRE A BROKER TO DO THAT AND
THAT&apos;S WHAT YOURS DOES.
OH RIGHT.
OKAY I&apos;M SORRY.
YEAH YEAH.
GOOD.
THE PARKING QUESTION PARKING I
WOULD SAY IS NOT REALLY I&apos;D SAY
SIGNAGE IS MOST IMPORTANT TO A
RETAILER AND TO PUT THIS IN
PERSPECTIVE WE MIGHT SOMERSET
DEVELOPMENT REDEVELOPED THE OLD
BELL LABS IN NEW JERSEY WHICH
IS A TWO MILLION SQUARE FOOT
REDEVELOPMENT.
WE&apos;VE GOT ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET OF RETAIL.
IT&apos;S DOING GREAT, RIGHT?
WE WE TO THE CALLER THAT THAT
CALLED AND SAYS WE GAVE FREE
RENT DURING COVID DURING DURING
THE WORST OF IT WE DIDN&apos;T WE
DIDN&apos;T COLLECT A PENNY.
WE DIDN&apos;T ASK FOR A PENNY.
WE LET THEM SURVIVE.
WE KNOW WE NEED RETAIL TO
CREATE BETTER SPACE.
I LOVE RETAIL BECAUSE THEN I
COULD DRIVE MY RENTS ON MY
APARTMENTS.
THAT&apos;S WHAT I WANT TO CREATE A
BETTER COMMUNITY.
I&apos;D LOVE TO PUT IT THERE.
&gt;&gt; IT JUST IT HASN&apos;T WORKED.
I&apos;M GOOD COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
YOU CAN STAY BECAUSE I HAVE
QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL START WITH STAFF
QUESTION BECAUSE I LIKE THE
REST OF THE COMMISSION WE
RECEIVED I DON&apos;T KNOW THIRTY
FIVE MAYBE MORE COMMUNICATIONS
I HAD AN ADDITIONAL TWENTY FIVE
CONVERSATIONS WITH RESIDENTS
EITHER ADJACENT TO THE PROPERTY
OR IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND I
EMAILED MR. CON TO TRY TO
ASCERTAIN SOME INFORMATION.
SO ONE MORE SECOND CAN YOU JUST
JUST FOR THIS PART OF THE
CONVERSATION CLARIFY THAT ABOUT
A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THAT
BETWEEN THE CITY AND OUR
PLANNING COMMISSION AND ANY
OF THE DEVELOPERS OR OWNERS THE
PROPERTY STARTING WITH PACKARD
PLACE I THINK IS WHAT IT WAS
CALLED.
WAS THERE AN AGREEMENT IN ORDER
TO MAKE THE DEVELOPMENT TO HAVE
RETAIL BE ATTACHED TO IT?
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, TO THE SHORT ANSWER
IS NO LONGER ANSWER IS THAT
PACARD SQUARE DID HAVE A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
ASSOCIATED WITH IT.
IT IS A PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
ADDRESSING THINGS LIKE SOME OFF
SITE IMPROVEMENTS LIKE WATER
MAINS AND SANITARY SEWERS THAT
ARE OFF SITE AS WELL AS PARK
DEDICATION ISSUES IN THAT SORT
OF THING.
BUT THERE WAS NO REFERENCE IN
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TO
ANY COMMITMENT TO PROVIDE A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF RETAIL SPACE.
&gt;&gt; SO THEN I ASKED YOU WHY ARE
WHY DID RESIDENTS BELIEVE THERE
WAS A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT?
SO IN YOUR EXPERIENCE WORKING
WITH THIS DEVELOPMENT, WAS
THERE ANYTHING THAT WOULD
COMMUNICATE BECAUSE AS WE
RECEIVED THESE COMMENTS AND AS
I TALKED TO FOLKS, THE THING
THAT KEPT COMING UP WAS THEY
AGREED TO DO A RETAIL YOU
SHOULDN&apos;T CHANGE IT.
WE ACTUALLY THOUGHT IT WAS A
GOOD AT FIRST AND THAT IT WAS A
PART OF THE PD AND THEN I ASKED
ABOUT THAT AND WAS TOLD THERE
WAS NO PD AND THIS IS A BAIRA
SITE BECAUSE IT&apos;S IN C ONE B
WHICH IS ALREADY A MIXED USE.
IT&apos;S UNDER THE FLOOR AREA RATIO
.
AND SO AGAIN I WAS JUST
CONFUSED AS TO WHY THERE WAS
ALL THIS ENERGY AND THERE WAS A
LOT OF ENERGY AROUND THIS AND
IT WASN&apos;T UNTIL YOU CLARIFIED
THAT PEOPLE WERE LIKE OH I
THOUGHT THERE WAS AN AGREEMENT
OH I THOUGHT THERE WAS A PD AND
THEN THAT CHANGED.
SO DID YOU HAVE ANY INSIGHT OR
CAN YOU SHARE WITH US?
&gt;&gt; I CAN SAY THE CITY DOES NOT
ENTER INTO AGREEMENTS LIKE THAT
TO GUARANTEE FOR ABOUT A
PROJECT LIKE THIS A CERTAIN
AMOUNT OF RETAIL SPACE.
SO SO WHATEVER AGREEMENT FOLKS
ARE TALKING ABOUT, IT&apos;S NOT AN
AGREEMENT THAT THE CITY SIGNED
ON TO I CAN&apos;T SPEAK TO A
PREVIOUS DEVELOPER OR THE
PREVIOUS DEVELOPER ON WHAT THEY
MAY HAVE OR MAY NOT HAVE SAID
IN IN MEETINGS WITH NEIGHBORS.
ALL I CAN SAY IS I&apos;M NOT AWARE
OF ANY SUCH AGREEMENT EITHER AN
AGREEMENT THAT WAS SIGNED BY
THE CITY OR AGREEMENT SIGNED BY
THE OWNER.
OK, SO THEN SO LIKE THE CALLERS
LIKE THE SPEAKERS AND HOUSE I
WANT WALKABLE NEIGHBORHOODS AS
WELL.
I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE RETAIL,
PHARMACY, ALL OF THOSE THINGS
ACTIVATE IT.
JUST THE OTHER DAY I WOKE UP WE
WERE OUT OF EGGS.
WE&apos;RE CLOSE TO A BUSHES BUT
IT&apos;S LIKE JUST LESS THAN A MILE
AND I HAVE TO DRIVE BECAUSE
THERE&apos;S NO WAY TO GET OUT OF MY
NEIGHBORHOOD TO THE BUSHES AND
A CONVENIENT WAY AND I WAS LIKE
IF WE HAD A NEIGHBORHOOD
GROCERY STORE I COULD WALK DOWN
AND GET MY TWO EGGS, FINISH MY
BREAKFAST AND THEN GO ON WITH
MY DAY.
SO SO THAT IS A REAL FELT NEED
AND I WOULD LOVE TO SEE THAT
KIND OF DEVELOPMENT HAPPEN.
BUT THE THING THAT IS STRIKING
TO ME IS THIS IS ALREADY ZONED
FOR THAT THIS IS ALREADY A
MIXED USE ZONE AND SO IF THE
DEVELOPERS CORRECT THAT THE
BUILDING WAS POORLY DESIGNED
WHICH IS MAKING IT HARD TO
ACTIVATE THE RETAIL, IS IT
CORRECT THAT THERE&apos;S NOTHING
PLANNING CAN DO TO FORCE THE
DEVELOPER TO PUT IN RETAIL HERE
BUT MY DEPARTMENT CAN DO THERE
ARE CERTAINLY COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN DOCUMENTS THAT THAT SPEAK
TO THE DESIRE FOR WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND MIXED USES
BUT THAT&apos;S DIFFERENT THAN
CODE WHEN WE REVIEW SITE PLANS
FOR FOR PRODUCTS LIKE THIS THAT
THAT ARE NOT REQUESTING A
REZONING WE FOCUS ON WHAT
CODE SAYS AND ALL THE REVIEWERS
OUR FOCUSED ON THE STANDARDS
AND I CAN SAY THIS EVENING THAT
THE PETITIONER HAS MET ALL
OF THE CITY STANDARDS.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO NOW THE PETITIONER
HOW ARE YOU PLANNING TO
MITIGATE THE TEN THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET THAT&apos;S OVER THE
BROWNFIELD THAT YOU&apos;RE DEALING
WITH THE THE VAPOR THAT&apos;S
THERE?
BECAUSE WHEN I LOOKED THE STAFF
REPORT THERE&apos;S A SECTION OF ONE
THE RETAIL SPACES WHERE THE
CONTENT THE BROWNFIELD OR THE
CONTAINMENT IS ACUTELY BUT
YOU&apos;RE STILL PLANNING TO PUT
RESIDENTIAL ON THERE.
SO COULD YOU JUST SPEAK TO HOW
YOU&apos;RE PLANNING TO MITIGATE
THAT?
IT&apos;S INTERESTING YOU BRING UP
BECAUSE THE REASON THAT I HAVE
TO GO UNDER THERE RIGHT NOW IS
BECAUSE THE BUILDING WAS BUILT
SO POORLY BECAUSE THEY DIDN&apos;T
RUN THE PLUMBING BEFORE THEY
DID THAT.
SO EVEN IF I WERE EVEN IF
RETAIL WERE GOING TO GO IN THAT
SPACE, YOU&apos;D STILL HAVE TO RUN
PLUMBING AND YOU&apos;D STILL HAVE
TO PENETRATE THE VAPOR BARRIER.
HAVING SAID THAT, I HAVE ADAM
RICHARDS ON THE LINE FROM EPA
WHO IS HE&apos;S THE REP FOR THE
SEAL VAPOR BARRIER THAT CAN
SPEAK TO EXACTLY WHAT GOES ON
IN BY PHONE.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T SEE IT.
RICHARDSON SHOULD BE OK WHILE
WE WHILE WE GET HIM IF HE&apos;S I
MEAN SOMEBODY RAISING HIS NINE
THREE SEVEN ONE I&apos;M HOPING OK
SO WE IS THAT OK?
WELL OK SO I THINK YOU SHOULD
BE ABLE TO GO YOU SHOULD BE
ABLE TO SPEAK NOW YOU CAN HAVE
IT.
&gt;&gt; YES.
OK YEAH I&apos;M RICHARD SOMEBODY WE
MANUFACTURE THE CO2 VAPOR
INTRUSION BARRIER SYSTEM FOR
REDEVELOPMENT OF CONTAMINATED
SITE SO AS YOU CAN IMAGINE WE
DEAL WITH YOU KNOW KIND
OF BUILD RANGE OF USES.
YOU KNOW WE DEAL WITH IT QUITE
A BIT IN OUR POLICY TO MAINTAIN
THE INTEGRITY OF THE SYSTEM IS
TO HAVE A CERTIFIED INSTALLER
MAKE THE REPAIRS.
WE HAVE DETAILS IF THE BARRIER
IS DAMAGED, HOW TO MAKE THOSE
REPAIRS SO THE CERTIFIED
INSTALLER WILL COME IN AND MAKE
ESSENTIALLY SURE THAT THAT
BARRIER SEAL AND ALL THE
PATHWAY WHERE THE CONTAMINANTS
IN THE SUBSURFACE ARE MITIGATED
FROM ENTERING THE BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; THIS BUILDING IS THE
APPLICATION OF THIS BARRIER IS
UNIQUE TO THE ORIGINAL
CONSULTANT
SO THERE&apos;S YOU KNOW,
THAT&apos;LL BE DEALT WITH, YOU
KNOW, FROM THE DESIGN OF THE
UTILITIES OBVIOUSLY WE HAVE
SUPPLICATIONS PROTOCOLS ON HOW
TO PROPERLY WORK AROUND OUR
BARRIER AND THEN, YOU KNOW,
ENSURE PROPERLY REPAIRED SO
THAT YOU KNOW, THIS IS HOW WE
DEAL WITH IT ON DAILY BASIS.
BUT AS YOU CAN IMAGINE, THIS
OCCURS ESPECIALLY WITH RETAIL
OR, YOU KNOW, OLD BUILDINGS
THAT ARE BEING RENOVATED FOR
REUSE THAT ANSWER YOUR QUESTION
.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
THANK YOU.
CAN I ASK TWO MORE QUESTIONS?
OK, SO AGAIN IN MY
CONVERSATIONS WITH RESIDENTS OR
ADJACENT RESIDENTS, ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT CAME UP AND I ALSO
EMAILED MR. CON ABOUT IT AS
WELL WAS THE REPAIR OF PAIGE
STREET
WHICH IS BEHIND THE
DEVELOPMENT THAT GOES FROM
THERE WAS AN ENTRANCE BEHIND
THE DEVELOPMENT ON PAGE THAT
THAT GOES TO KING GEORGE AND IT
WAS DAMAGED DURING THE ORIGINAL
CONSTRUCTION AND THE NEIGHBORS
HAVE WRITTEN IN AS WELL TO YOU
THEY&apos;VE INDICATED ASKING IF
YOU&apos;D BE WILLING TO REPAIR
THAT.
MR. CON INDICATED THAT THERE
HAD BEEN NO CONVERSATIONS
BETWEEN STAFF AND YOU ABOUT
REPAIRING THAT STREET AND THE
STREET IS NOT SCHEDULED FOR
REPAIR UNTIL 2027.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS I WANTED
TO JUST BRING TO YOU FROM SOME
OF THE FOLKS THAT I TALKED TO
FOR THE NEIGHBORS THAT ARE
AROUND WAS IT WOULD GO A LONG
WAY IF PAGE GOT REDEVELOPED DE
DURING THIS CONVERSION TO
RETAIL AND THEN THE OTHER THING
THAT CAME UP WAS THE AGAIN AND
I AM A BROKEN RECORD BECAUSE I
BIKE IN THE CITY AND EVERY DAY
SOMEONE TRIES TO KILL ME WITH
THEIR CAR WHEN I&apos;M ON MY BIKE
AND IT&apos;S NOT A PLEASANT
EXPERIENCE AND SO THE
ACTIVATION OF THE BIKE LANE AND
THE SIDEWALK ON PACARD NEEDS
SOME ATTENTION BECAUSE PEOPLE
WHIPPED IN AND OUT OF THE
DEVELOPMENT WHICH CAN CREATE A
POTENTIAL HARM WHICH YOU JUST
SAT THROUGH THE CONVERSATION WE
HAD WITH THE PREVIOUS DEVELOPER
ABOUT THAT ON STADIUM.
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST WANT TO GIVE THOSE
TWO THINGS TO YOU OR ACTUALLY
IT&apos;S THREE THE SIDEWALK THE
BIKE LANE ON PACARD AND THEN
PAGE BEING REDEVELOPED FROM THE
BACK OF THE DEVELOPMENT TO KING
GEORGE AS SOMETHING THAT I&apos;VE
HEARD FROM NEIGHBORS AROUND
THIS DEVELOPMENT.
FIRST I&apos;M HEARING THAT SO I
CAN&apos;T REALLY GIVE YOU AN ANSWER
ON THIS BUT I&apos;M I&apos;M GOING TO
PULL UP EXACTLY TO SEE WHERE
YOU&apos;RE YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT I&apos;M
I&apos;M DONE, OK?
AND THEN WHAT SPECIFICALLY ARE
YOU ASKING ABOUT THE BIKE WOULD
WANT STRIPED.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT REALLY SURE WHAT
YOU&apos;RE WHAT YOU&apos;RE.
WELL IT&apos;S SO I&apos;M NOT A TRAFFIC
ENGINEER.
ALL I KNOW IS CARS ARE
DANGEROUS AND IF I COLLIDE WITH
A CAR I&apos;M GOING TO DIE AND I
WEAR A HELMET BUT IT&apos;S YOU KNOW
ABOVE LIKE TWENTY FIVE THIRTY
DEGREES THERE&apos;S A NURSE
PRACTITIONER IN THE ROOM.
&gt;&gt; SHE CAN TELL ME WHETHER I&apos;M
RIGHT OR WRONG A SPEED WITH A
COLLISION.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO MAKE IT SO
THINGS THAT CALM THE EXIT AND
ENTRANCE OF THE DEVELOPMENT
ONTO PACARD AS IT INTERSECTS
WITH THE SIDEWALK THAT&apos;S THERE
AS WELL AS THE BIKE LANE THAT&apos;S
THERE IS SOMETHING THAT THAT
I&apos;VE HEARD FROM A NUMBER
OF NEIGHBORS THAT I&apos;VE TALKED
WITH AND I WAS PLANNING TO BIKE
IT TODAY JUST TO TAKE A LOOK AT
IT MYSELF.
BUT I DIDN&apos;T HAVE A CHANCE TO
TO GO BY IT TODAY.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT COULD JUST BE
SOMETHING THAT YOU COULD TALK
WITH STAFF ABOUT OR WITH
ENGINEERING TO SEE IF THERE ARE
ANY THINGS THAT CAN BE DONE TO
CREATE A LITTLE BIT MORE SAFETY
FOR BIKERS THAT HAVE TO CROSS
THE ENTRANCE AND EXIT OF THE
DEVELOPMENT I&apos;M SURE.
&gt;&gt; JEFF, CALL ME WHENEVER YOU
WANT.
THANKS.
&gt;&gt; WELCOME.
COMMISSIONER KELLY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
SO I GRAPPLE A LOT IN MY
PROFESSIONAL LIFE WITH RETAIL
OFFICE LEASING ETC. JUST AS A
POINT OF CLARIFICATION ON
COSTAR YOU&apos;RE LISTED AT TWENTY
EIGHT TRIPLE NOT SO GROSS.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T TALK THAT&apos;S NEWS TO
ME.
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T CHECK REGULARLY
SO OK YOU DO HAVE A PRICE OUT
THERE OK I JUST WANTED TO SAY
COULD YOU JUST CLARIFY WHAT
THAT MEANS PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; YES THANK YOU TRIPLE AND
THAT WOULD MEAN THAT THE THE
REACH OF THE TANNIN WOULD BE
REIMBURSING FOR ALL COMMON AREA
MAINTENANCE, PROPERTY TAXES AND
INSURANCE ON TOP OF THE LIZARD
RATE.
SO OK GIVEN THAT THEY JUST
BOUGHT THIS GUSSYING TAX IS
UNCAPPED YOU GUYS ARE PROBABLY
LOOKING AT TEN TWELVE MAYBE
THIRTEEN DOLLARS A SQUARE FOOT
ON TOP.
SO I&apos;M GUESSING THAT THE TOTAL
OCCUPANCY COST OF THAT KIND
OF LOOKING TO LOCATE THERE
THEY&apos;RE PROBABLY LOOKING TO PAY
ABOUT FORTY ONE SQUARE FOOT.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T AGREE WITH THAT.
NO REALLY THE ONLY THING WOULD
BE TAXES.
IT&apos;S THERE&apos;S REALLY NO COMMON
AREA MAINTENANCE BECAUSE
OF WHERE IT IS IN THE BUILDING.
THERE&apos;S NO ADDITIONAL CHARGE TO
THEM SO IT WOULD REALLY JUST BE
TAXES PROBABLY LIKE FIVE BUCKS
A FOOT.
&gt;&gt; WHAT ARE YOUR NUTS?
&gt;&gt; I GUESS THAT&apos;S MY QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; WHAT DO YOU MEAN WHAT ARE
YOUR TRIP ONLINE SO YOU DON&apos;T
HAVE LIKE SNOWPLOW KNOWING THAT
THEY&apos;RE LIKE ALLOCATED TO IT
DEMANDS KEEPING DE MINIMIS?
&gt;&gt; NO I COULD I DON&apos;T HAVE THEM
AVAILABLE RIGHT NOW SO OK GOT I
GOT THEM FOR YOU TO MAKE SURE
YOUR TAXES ARE PROBABLY GOING
TO BE FIVE SIX BUT YEAH I&apos;M NOT
JUST LOOKING TO HAVE OBJECTIVE
FACTS.
YOU GUYS ARE LISTED AT TWENTY
EIGHT TRIPLE NET AND THAT&apos;S
WHERE YOU ARE LOOKING TO PASS
THROUGH OPERATING EXPENSES FOR
THE TIME IT I THINK SOMEBODY
ASKED WHY DOES RETAIL FAIL?
I THINK A LOT OF WHAT YOU SAID
IS TRUE THE VISIBILITY THE
GROUND LEVEL ACTIVATION
OF SOMETHING BEING DEPRESSED
INTO THE GROUND RIGHT.
SO A GOOD EXAMPLE MIGHT BE
LIBERTY PLAZA, THE PARK THAT
WE&apos;VE ALL STRUGGLED WITH ON THE
VISION RIGHT.
WHEN YOU HAVE GREAT SEPARATION
AND IT SITS UNDERNEATH, IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S A LITTLE MORE LESS
DESIRABLE AND I THINK RETAILS
DIFFICULT BECAUSE FUNDAMENTALLY
IT&apos;S CHANGED IN 2000 TWENTY
TIMES ON AMAZON LIVE
TRADITIONAL MIDDLE OF RETAIL
KIND OF FAILED.
YOU HAD A BIFURCATION.
YOU HAD FLIGHT TO QUALITY.
YOU USUALLY HAVE DEEP
EXPERIENCE IN RETAIL.
SO SOMEBODY ASKED HEY WELL HOW
CAN WE HAVE RETAIL SUCCEED?
I MEAN IT&apos;S GOING TO BE ABOUT
YOUR SALES.
WE GENERALLY TRACK OCCUPANCY
AND HEALTH RATIOS SO BASICALLY
SAY WHAT ARE YOUR SALES
RELATIVE TO YOUR OVERALL
OCCUPANCY COST?
&gt;&gt; SO LIKE A HEALTHY GROUP IS
GOING TO HAVE LIKE A FIVE TO
EIGHT PERCENT HEALTH RATIO.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT YOU WANT TO
TARGET RELATIVE TO OVERALL
SALES NOW I WOULD SAY THE HIGH
COST SOUND PRETTY TREMENDOUS IF
YOU HAVE THAT VAPOR THING THAT
YOU WORRY ABOUT AND SO THAT&apos;S
YOU KNOW, AT THE END OF THE DAY
MY QUESTION AT THE VERY END
OF THIS IS ARE YOU WILLING TO
COMPROMISE AT ALL GIVEN THE
COMMUNITY FEEDBACK?
SO THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE MY ASK
FOR YOU BUT I&apos;M GOING TO GO
KIND OF TALK A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT THE GENERAL MARKET AS
WE&apos;RE SEEING RIGHT NOW.
I WOULD SAY THAT WE&apos;VE HAD AND
I&apos;M JUST GOING TO TALK FACTS
OVER THE LAST I JUST CHECKED I
HAVE ONE RETAIL DOWNTOWN.
I&apos;VE GOTTEN NINETEEN INQUIRIES
IN THE LAST SINCE MAY 4TH.
I HAVE COFFEE FIFTEEN HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET KOREAN CORN DOGS,
CHICKEN WINGS, STEAK HOUSE
COFFEE .
I HAD A MARIJUANA CONSUMPTION
LOUNGE THAT INSPIRED VEGAN
ITALIAN MEDICAL OFFICE, YEMENI
COFFEE , JAPANESE RESTAURANT.
I&apos;M JUST SIMPLY SAYING THIS IS
WHAT I&apos;VE SEEN AS FAR AS MY
MARKETING IN DOWNTOWN RETAIL SO
IT&apos;S ON STATE PACARD.
SO IT&apos;S MAYBE ABOUT YOU KNOW, A
MILE AND A HALF FROM THE
GIORGIS LOCATION.
ALL OF THAT SAID RETAIL IS
TOUGH.
YOU&apos;RE RIGHT PLACEMAKING ACCESS
VISIBILITY AND MAKING SURE THAT
PEOPLE GO THROUGH THE SPACE AND
I THINK FUNDAMENTALLY PURE
RETAIL HAS CHANGED.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
WE&apos;VE EARLY IN MY CAREER WITH
STABILIZING SHOPPING CENTERS
THAT WERE BASIC STRUGGLING FROM
LOSING PURE RETAIL TENANTS AND
IT ALL WENT TO BASICALLY
SERVICE ORIENTED QUASI RETAIL.
SO PEDIATRIC YOGA ESSENTIALLY
LIKE ANYTHING THAT HAD TO DO
WITH PHYSICAL THERAPY AND
THINGS THAT YOU JUST CAN&apos;T BUY
ON AMAZON ESSENTIALLY.
SO SO NOW WE&apos;RE IN THIS ERA
OF HEY, WHY DO PEOPLE STILL
COFFEE SHOPS RIGHT.
IF THAT&apos;S THE CASTELAR OF MAYBE
I&apos;LL RUN INTO SOMEBODY THAT I
DON&apos;T KNOW LIKE WHY DON&apos;T WE GO
TO THE OFFICE?
AND SO IT&apos;S THAT KIND
OF RANDOMNESS THAT THAT ALLURE,
THAT POSSIBILITY AND THAT
MEANINGFUL PLACEMAKING WHERE
PEOPLE MIGHT HAVE A CHANCE TO
BUILD A RELATIONSHIP THAT KEEPS
PEOPLE GOING TO RETAIL.
IT&apos;S THE EXPERIENTIAL COMPONENT
TO IT.
SO YOU HAVE THIS AGAIN
BIFURCATION OF HIGH AND RETAIL
AND THEN YOU KIND OF HAVE THIS
DISCUSSION WHETHER TO GO INTO
AN OUTLET MALL TO GO DISCOUNT
SHOPPING.
I MEAN FINDING A DEAL IS OFF.
RIGHT?
SO BETWEEN THOSE TWO THINGS
RETAIL IS TOUGH.
LOOK NO FURTHER THAN HOOVER AND
GREEN.
YOU KNOW THEY&apos;RE LISTED AT
TWENTY SEVEN TRIPLE NET SO AND
THEY&apos;RE CLOSE TO THE STADIUM
BUT THEY DON&apos;T HAVE VERY GOOD
TRAFFIC OR THOROUGHFARE AND
ANGELA&apos;S GREAT SIGNATURE IS
ALSO WHAT THEY DO.
SO I THINK HOLLINGER&apos;S IS GREAT
AS WELL.
SO IT&apos;S SO I JUST WANTED TO
BASICALLY YOU KNOW ALL OF THIS
IS TO SAY YOU KNOW WHAT MAKES
GOOD RETAIL?
WE GRAPPLE WITH THAT OFTEN
BECAUSE I THINK 20 MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE IMPORTANT.
WE WANT TO ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO
HAVE ACCESS TO FOOD.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY
DON&apos;T HAVE, YOU KNOW, FOOD
DESERTS AND SO REALLY KIND
OF QUESTION IS I MEAN HAVE YOU
TRIED THINKING ABOUT PERCENTAGE
RENT SCENARIOS WHERE YOU&apos;RE
SAYING HEY, INSTEAD OF , YOU
KNOW, PAYING ME A FLAT BASE
RENT WITH NETS RECOVERIES CAN I
CAN YOU JUST REPORT SALES EVERY
MONTH AND TAKE EIGHT 12 PERCENT
OF YOUR GROSS SALES?
AND SO WILKSHIRE THE RISK SO
LOOKING AT THOSE KINDS
OF ARRANGEMENTS AGAIN A TIE
COST I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT
OF BROWNFIELD VAPOR MITIGATION
IS GOING TO COST ESPECIALLY
WITH THE TRADES WHERE THEY ARE
RIGHT NOW.
BUT WITH RESPECT TO I GUESS
YOU&apos;VE HEARD THE COMMUNITY
HONIGMAN GREAT GREAT ATTORNEYS
TOO.
I MEAN WE USE HONEYMAN TOO.
I MEAN YOU I GUESS THE ASK IS
WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO
COMPROMISE GIVEN HOW MUCH
YOU&apos;VE HEARD FROM OUR COMMUNITY
AND CONSIDER AT THE VERY LEAST
CREATING A FEW 12. SQUARE ERS
THAT YOU WOULD DEDICATE AND YOU
BASICALLY EITHER HAVE TO SAY
I&apos;M CREATING YOU KNOW,
CENTRALIZE MASS OR IT&apos;S A LOSS
LEADER MY PERFORMANCE.
RIGHT.
IT&apos;S LIKE I GOT TO CHOOSE
.
AND SO THE QUESTION IS WOULD
YOU BE WILLING TO COMPROMISE?
I MEAN YOU GUYS JUST CLOSE YOUR
EYES.
YOU HAVE A TARGET PERFORMA TO
SOMETHING AFOOT.
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, AN EIGHT AND
A HALF CAP RATE YOU&apos;RE PROBABLY
GOING TO HAVE TO SECURE AT
LEAST TWENTY TWO TRIPLE AND I
GET IT I UNDERSTAND WHY YOU
HAVE CERTAIN PRESSURES ON YOUR
END.
WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO
COMPROMISE TO AT LEAST PUT, YOU
KNOW, THREE 100 SQUARE FOOTERS
THAT COULD BE ON A PERCENTAGE
BASIS TO SAY WE&apos;LL WORK WITH
LOCAL OPERATORS TO TRY AND
CREATE MEANINGFUL PLACEMAKING
YOU&apos;RE RIGHT PROBERS PROBABLY
NOT GOING TO GO BACK.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, YOU LOOK AT LUCKIES
AND THE LOSS OF CERTAIN RETAIL
AROUND THAT NEIGHBORHOOD, I
THINK IT WOULD GO UP
TREMENDOUSLY LONG WAY.
YOU GUYS ARE EXPERTS AT
PLACEMAKING.
THEY&apos;RE TRYING TO BE CREATIVE
WITH LEVERAGING LOCAL TALENT.
COULD THEY DO EXIST?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M TELLING YOU THEY THEY
EXIST SO SO THAT WOULD BE MY
ASK WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO
COMPROMISE TO RETAIN SOME TO
TRY AND CREATE IT DOES HAVE A
TWENTY THREE THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET.
OK, THAT&apos;S NOT TO COULD WE HAVE
SOME NEIGHBORHOOD AMENITIES
THAT ARE CONSIDERED TO BE
LASSETER&apos;S THAT YOU MIGHT FIND
ACTUALLY TURN OUT TO BE PRETTY
PROFITABLE BECAUSE YOU&apos;VE
LEVERAGED LOCAL TALENT SO I
ACTUALLY MET WITH THE BROKER ON
SITE TODAY TO TALK ABOUT VERY
THING BECAUSE I&apos;D LOVE TO PUT A
COFFEE SHOP HERE IF YOU&apos;RE
GETTING INTERESTED IN A
COFFEE SHOP IN YOUR LOCATION,
SEND ME AN EMAIL.
LET&apos;S TALK.
BUT I&apos;D LOVE TO PUT A
COFFEE SHOP ACTUALLY I DON&apos;T
THINK I&apos;M ALLOWED TO TALK TO
PETITIONERS OUTSIDE THE ROOM SO
I ACTUALLY I WAS JUST I WAS
THAT&apos;S NOT GOING TO WAIT WAIT
THE MOOD HERE THE BIG THING HE
ACTUALLY TOLD ME WAS THAT A LOT
OF THESE COFFEE SHOPS AROUND
HERE OR AT LEAST WHAT THE ONES
THAT HE&apos;S BEEN DEALING WITH
THEY CAN&apos;T FIND THE THE WORKERS
TO ACTUALLY WORK THE SPACE SO
THAT EVEN IF SOMEONE WERE TO
EVEN IF YOU KNOW I&apos;M JUST GOING
TO SAY ZINGERMAN&apos;S JUST BECAUSE
I KNOW IF THEY WERE GOING TO
SAY HEY, WE WANT TO PUT A
COFFEE SHOP RIGHT.
WELL, THEY&apos;D HAVE TO FIND
SOMEONE TO BE THE MANAGER AND
THEY&apos;RE HAVING A HARD ENOUGH
TIME FILLING THEIR OWN SPACES
LET ALONE WHAT&apos;S CURRENTLY OUT
THERE.
SO WITH RESPECT TO THE
PERCENTAGE RENT, I MEAN WE&apos;VE
DONE THAT IT WAS SUCCESSFUL IN
NEW JERSEY LIKE IT MAKES SENSE
BUT THAT&apos;S REALLY ALMOST ALWAYS
ALMOST AFTER THE TIME&apos;S ALREADY
DONE.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW WHAT YOU&apos;RE GETTING
TO IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT
TO ANSWER THE THE CORE OF YOUR
QUESTION ABOUT COMPROMISING IF
IF I COULD WALK OUT OF HERE
TONIGHT WITH AN APPROVAL, I
WOULD BE HAPPY TO TO LEAVE THE
TWO SPACES AT THE FRONT CAN CAN
I ANDREW RESTYLING CAN YOU PUT
THE KEY PLAN BACK UP IT CAN HE
GET BACK IN THERE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YEAH.
YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO HE WAS
STILL ON ANDREW WEISSMAN.
HE&apos;S STILL ONLINE IF HE&apos;S
LISTENING WHO KNOWS.
THERE WE GO.
YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH
NO PROBLEM.
I DON&apos;T HAVE AN OPTION TO
SHARE.
&gt;&gt; OH HERE WE GO WE WE&apos;RE GOING
TO GIVE YOU PERMISSION AGAIN.
OH NO NO I&apos;M YOU SHOULD SEE IT
.
THERE YOU GO.
YEP.
SO IF YOU GO TO THE FLOOR
PLANTS THIS THIS THAT YOU SEE
THE LARGE BLOCK IN THE SMALLER
SO THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S TWO OF EACH
THIS IS JUST THE LOWER THE
SOUTHERN PORTION.
YEAH.
SO I I THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S A COUPLE
OF REASONS WHY I&apos;D BE OK WOULD
WE BE WOULD KEEP PUTTING OUT GO
BACK TO THE FOUR PLEASE THE
SMALLER BLOCK BECAUSE THERE&apos;S
TWO OF THEM THERE ABOUT TWELVE
SQUARE FEET I THINK THE TOTAL I
THINK THE NUMBER WAS TWENTY TWO
SIXTY FOR YOU AND YOU KNOW SO
YOU HAVE TO ELEVEN HUNDRED
TWELVE HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
SPACES WHICH I&apos;D LOVE TO PUT A
COFFEE SHOP OR CONVENIENCE
STORE OR ANY OF THESE THINGS
AND THE REASON WHY I&apos;D LIKE TO
PUT IT THERE IS IN LARGE PART
BECAUSE OF THE VISIBILITY FROM
THE STREET AND THE ABILITY TO
PUT SIGNAGE BECAUSE IT&apos;S
FURTHEST BACK.
SO YOU HAVE THE MOST TIME
SEEING IT WHEN YOU DRIVE BY AND
IT&apos;S GOT THE EASIEST PLACE TO
PUT SIGNAGE BECAUSE I DON&apos;T
NEED TO PUT IT AT THE FRONT.
I CAN HAVE MORE TIME TO SEE IT.
AND NOT ONLY THAT, THE PARKING
IS THAT PERFECTLY IF IF I&apos;VE
HEARD WE&apos;VE HEARD COMMUNITY
LOUD AND CLEAR AGAIN I&apos;D LOVE
TO PUT IT HERE PLACEMAKING
WALKABILITY.
THIS IS THIS IS WHAT WE DO AS
DEVELOPERS.
I ENCOURAGE YOU TO LOOK AT WHAT
WE&apos;VE DONE IN NEW JERSEY AND
THE TYPE OF PRODUCT THAT WE DO.
SO IF IF THAT GAVE ME THE
ABILITY TO WALK OUT OF HERE
WITH AN APPROVAL TO TO SAY YES
,I WILL KEEP THESE TWO SPACES
AS RETAIL, WE WOULD WE WILL
SIGN UP FOR THAT TO RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; OK, GOTCHA.
I WHAT I COULD ASK FOR A THANK
YOU AND THAT&apos;S THAT AS FAR AS
QUESTION FEEL THANKS.
UH OK HERE WE GO DOWN THE LINE
COMMISSIONER RELS YOU COULD
HAVE STARTED THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE LINE I SO THANK YOU IN
TERMS OF THE QUESTION WE GOT
ABOUT EXPERTIZE ABOUT RETAIL IT
IS REALLY NICE TO HAVE YOUR
EXPERTIZE COMMISSIONER REALLY
BRING IN THE NUMBERS AND
EXPLAINING IT TO THOSE OF US
WHO DON&apos;T KNOW THAT I KNOW THAT
SOUNDS GREAT TO ME BECAUSE I
SHARE EVERYTHING THAT WAS SAID
OUT THE IMPORTANCE
OF WALKABLE NEIGHBORHOODS YOU
DO TO PEOPLE LIKE TO HAVE
COFFEE SHOPS.
RIGHT.
WHO KNOWS WHAT THAT WILL
TRANSFORM TO.
THE OTHER THING THAT REALLY
JUST STRIKES ME ABOUT THIS IS
THAT THIS FLOOR PLATE IS DONE
IN SUCH A WAY THAT IT IS ABLE
TO ACCOMMODATE DIFFERENT KINDS
OF USES LIKE AND THAT&apos;S WHY
WHEN WE&apos;RE THINKING ABOUT
REZONING FOR OTHER PLACES LIKE
THINKING ABOUT HOW TO MAKE THAT
FIRST FLOOR FLEXIBLE BUT WE
REGULARLY HEAR THIS ABOUT NOT
WANTING TO TIE PEOPLE WE DON&apos;T
EMPTY SPACES AWFUL FOR LOTS
OF THINGS.
&gt;&gt; THE QUESTION IS SO THERE&apos;S
ONE FOR YOU.
&gt;&gt; OH ACTUALLY I THINK BOTH
OF THESE ARE STAFF QUESTIONS.
SO ONE IS ABOUT THE TRASH
ENCLOSURE AND I&apos;VE JUST NOTED
THAT YOU&apos;RE MOVING IT FROM
CLOSE TO YOUR BUILDING TO CLOSE
TO THE PROPERTY LINE AND SO I&apos;M
CURIOUS ABOUT WHAT REGULATIONS
EXIST ON THAT AND ANY SCREENING
STAFF THAT IS REQUIRED FOR THAT
FOR THE TRASH ENCLOSURE BECAUSE
THIS COMES UP SOMETIMES JUST
YOU&apos;RE ASKING ABOUT THE
SCREENING THE CLOSURE OF THE
OF THE SOLID WASTE AREA.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THERE&apos;S LIKE ANY ANY
OTHER VEGETATION THAT BECAUSE
RIGHT NOW THAT PROPERTY LINE IS
NOT GREEN.
BUT I WOULD NOTE THAT ON GOOGLE
STREET VIEW AT LEAST IT&apos;S THE
DOORS ARE CLOSED LIKE IT&apos;S A
NICE LOOKING TRASH ENCLOSURE
BUT IT&apos;S JUST THERE IS A
CAPITULATIONS BUFFER THAT&apos;S
REQUIRED ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE SIDE OR ON THE RIGHT
SIDE OF THE SCREEN BECAUSE WE
HAVE RESIDENTIAL ZONING TO THE
SOUTH.
HOWEVER, THE NORTH ZONING,
ZONING THE SITE IS SO
COMMERCIAL AND SO NO COMMUNITY
STRUCTURE IS REQUIRED.
SO THE DEVELOPER IS MEETING
CODE REQUIREMENTS TO PROVIDE A
SCREEN AND YOU KNOW, INTENDS TO
KEEP THE DUMPSTERS WITHIN THE
WITHIN SQUITIERI.
&gt;&gt; OK, JUST WANTED TO VERIFY
THAT.
THANK YOU.
THE OTHER QUESTION THAT I HAD
IS WHAT THE TRIGGER FOR REVIEW
WAS HERE BECAUSE IS IT THAT IS
IT THE ADDITION OF FLOOR AREA
THAT WE THEN HAD TO DO IS THAT
BECAUSE OF PARKING ASSOCIATED
WITH AND I&apos;M CURIOUS ABOUT HOW
FUTURE CHANGES TO PARKING
REQUIREMENTS MIGHT CHANGE THE
TRIGGER WHETHER WE&apos;RE
DISCUSSING THIS AT ALL.
SO IF YOU COULD JUST ANSWER WHY
IT IS THAT THIS IS BEFORE US
THERE IS A CALL MADE BY THE
CITY&apos;S PLANNING MANAGER BRETT
LEONARD WHO FELT THE ADDITIONAL
UNITS WARRANTED A PLANNING
COMMISSION REVIEW.
IF I IF I COULD JUST ADD TO
THAT IT WAS IN OUR MOST RECENT
CODE CHANGES AS OBVIOUSLY AS
YOU KNOW WE MADE SIGNIFICANT
CHANGES.
ONE OF THE CATEGORIES IN THERE
IS ADDITIONS OF UNITS WITHOUT
THE EXPANSION OF FLOOR.
I FORGET THE EXACT TERMINOLOGY
BUT SO THIS WAS IT&apos;S NO
QUESTION IT WAS REQUIRED IN THE
TABLE AND THE REASON WHY THAT
WAS IF WE HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL
AGAIN WOULD ONLY GO TO PLANNING
COMMISSION OBVIOUSLY SO BUT
REMEMBER PART OF OUR DISCUSSION
BACK IN THE HISTORY OF THAT WAS
BECAUSE OF THE PARKING
REQUIREMENTS BECAUSE A SITE
LIKE THIS AGAIN SO IT WAS WE WE
RECOGNIZED WE HAD PULLED IT
BACK SOME LEVELS OF REVIEW
NEEDED BUT BECAUSE WE HAD
PARKING REQUIREMENTS WHAT WE DO
STILL HAVE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
RIGHT NOW THAT WAS A TRIGGER
AND THAT&apos;S WHY THIS IS GOING
BEFORE YOU AS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
IT&apos;S ONLY BECAUSE OF THE
ADDITIONAL UNITS EVEN THOUGH
THEY&apos;RE NOT EXPANDING IT SO IT
IS A PRETTY CLEAR LINE ITEM
WITHIN THE SITE PLAN REVIEW
REQUIREMENTS.
NOW THAT IS SOMETHING THAT
WE&apos;VE DISCUSSED I JUST
DISCUSSED WITH MR. ON IT LAST
WEEK ACTUALLY ABOUT NOW THAT
THINGS ARE CHANGING IN THE CITY
REGARDING PARKING REQUIREMENTS
THAT MAY BE SOMETHING BECAUSE
WITHOUT THAT AGAIN YOU&apos;RE
LOOKING AT A USAIA THAT&apos;S
ALLOWED THEY COULD HAVE BUILT
AN ENTIRELY RESIDENTIAL PROJECT
AND TO START WITH THEIR INTENT.
SO SO THERE&apos;S NOT THERE&apos;S NOT A
LOT OF VALUE ADDED THROUGH THIS
PROCESS NECESSARILY.
SO THAT&apos;S A LONG WINDED ANSWER
TO YOUR QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; AND DO YOU HAVE THANK YOU
FOR THAT AND THANK YOU FOR
THINKING ABOUT WHAT THIS MEANS
IF IT&apos;S NOT TRIGGERING
DIFFERENT MULTIPLIERS IN THE
PARKING TABLE BECAUSE I ALSO
AGREE THAT IN TERMS OF ADDING
UNITS WITH MINIMAL VISUAL
IMPACT THIS IS SUPER
AGAIN
TAKING VACANT SPACE AND MAKING
IT OCCUPIED IS A GREAT THING IN
MY MIND.
DO YOU REMEMBER SIX MONTHS AGO
BEFORE I MADE THOSE CHANGES IF
THIS WOULD HAVE GONE ALL THE
WAY UP TO COUNCIL IT WOULDN&apos;T
YOU KNOW IT&apos;S OK.
I DON&apos;T REMEMBER WE WILL GO ALL
THE WAY TO COUNCIL BUT I KNOW
IT WOULD HAVE STILL TRIGGERED
AT LEAST PLANNING COMMISSION
ACTION.
I KNOW THAT BUT I I I CAN&apos;T
RECALL OFFHAND BUT I KNOW THEY
WOULD GO TO THE WAY TO THAT&apos;S
OK.
&gt;&gt; WELL AND THE FACT THEY ARE
ADDING FLOOR AREA I ASSUME MAY
HAVE EVEN IN THIS SITUATION MAY
CAUSE A DIFFERENT TRIGGER TO
THAT.
I THINK THAT ANSWERS MY ANSWERS
TO MY QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD BE IN ORDER TO MAKE
THE CHANGES THAT COMMISSIONER
LEE SUGGESTED THAT THE
PETITIONER SEEMS VERY WILLING
TO MAKE.
WHAT WOULD YOU RECOMMEND IN
TERMS OF AMENDMENTS TO THE
MOTION OR YEAH, WELL I&apos;M NOT
SURE BECAUSE YOU&apos;RE NOT
NECESSARILY REQUIRING IT SO I&apos;M
NOT SURE HOW TO ADD SOMETHING
INTO THE MOTION THAT WE DON&apos;T
HAVE TRIGGER AND I DON&apos;T KNOW
HOW TO CATCH WE&apos;RE JUST WHERE
YOU&apos;RE ASKING HIM TO LOOK INTO
THIS BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW TO
REALLY READ AND THEN THE MOTION
THAT LIKE GUARANTEEING THAT HE
LOOKS INTO I GUESS YOU KNOW
WHAT I&apos;M TRYING TO SAY THERE&apos;S
NOTHING THAT AND YOU COULD ALSO
IT HE CAN AND AGAIN, I KNOW WE
WANT THE ASSURANCE THAT HE&apos;S
GOING TO LOOK INTO IT KIND
OF BUT NOTHING PRECLUDES EVEN
IF HE GOT APPROVAL FOR WHAT
EXACTLY WAS ASKING YOU TONIGHT
NOTHING PRECLUDES HIM FROM
PURSUING THAT PATH.
I MEAN HE HE COULD YOU KNOW,
WITH A BIG FAVOR COMES IN AND
IF HE&apos;S AGREEABLE THEY COULD HE
COULD FEEL THE SECURITY RETAIL
SO IT DOESN&apos;T NECESSARILY
PRECLUDE HIM GOING FORWARD WITH
THAT BECAUSE THE PARKING
NUMBERS WOULD STILL WORK SO
THERE&apos;D BE NO CHANGE FOR AREA
IF HE DECIDED TO FILL OUT THAT
ADDITIONAL SPACE WITH RETAIL
RATHER THAN RESIDENTIAL.
BUT I&apos;M NOT SURE I GUESS I
WOULD NEED SOMETHING MORE
SPECIFIC TO KIND OF LINK IT
INTO A MOTION JUST YOU JUST
WANT TO SAY THAT HE WORKS WITH
EXPLORERS.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS AN OPTION.
BUT SORRY I AND MAYBE I
MISUNDERSTOOD OR THERE IS
MISSPEAKING.
I UNDERSTOOD IT AS THE
PETITIONER IS WILLING TO NOT
CONVERT THOSE TWO UNITS AND SO
YEAH IT WOULD BE CREATING
SLIGHTLY FEWER OH.
&gt;&gt; THAN I&apos;M SORRY I COMPLETED.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU&apos;RE SAYING WITH THE SO
THESE UNITS EXCLUDING THOSE TWO
UNITS FROM THIS SO THEN THAT
WOULD REQUIRE IF HE WERE TO
COME BACK INTO THE FUTURE TO
ADD ADDITIONAL UNITS IT MAY
TRIGGER YOU MAY TAKE COMING
BACK TO US.
&gt;&gt; OK SO I THINK IF WE WE COULD
ADD THAT IN AND I THINK WE
WOULD NEED THE YOU KNOW, KIND
OF SQUARE FOOTAGE OR SOME
IDENTIFYING NATURE UNITS WHAT
STREET THAT WOULD REMAIN
COMMERCIAL USE.
OK, SORRY SORRY IF I COULD IF I
COULD INTERJECT.
YES.
AND INJUNCTED IT MIGHT BE
BENEFICIAL TO PROVIDE THE
BRITISHER AN OPPORTUNITY TO BE
EXPLICIT WITH REGARD TO WHAT
HE&apos;S ACTUALLY OFFERING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
CAN WE JUST I&apos;M WILLING TO TO
HAVE THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S FOUR UNITS
THAT I&apos;M FORCED BLOCKS OF SPACE
THAT I&apos;M LOOKING TO CONVERT TO
RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
I&apos;M WILLING TO HAVE THE TWO
SMALLEST SPACES WHICH ARE
CLOSEST WHICH ARE FURTHEST FROM
PACARD REMAIN RETAIL AND I KNOW
THE NUMBER IS TWO THOUSAND
SIXTY FOUR.
THAT&apos;S THE NUMBER OF MY
ARCHITECT GAVE ME.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME ARE WE
AMENABLE TO MAKING THAT JUST A
CONDITION WHILE WE WORK OUT THE
TOTAL BECAUSE I DON&apos;T WANT TO
COME BACK AND SAY OH IT&apos;S TWO
THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE
WHEN WE REALLY MEASURED IT.
YES, GO AHEAD.
GO AHEAD.
I KNOW YOU&apos;RE MY I GUESS MY
CONCERN WOULD BE ACTUALLY I
MEAN LOOK, I THINK IT&apos;S A GOOD
FAITH GESTURE.
MY CONCERN IS I MEAN IT MAKES
SENSE TO OBVIOUSLY DEDICATE AND
CAPS BUT ONE OF THE MOST
CRITICAL VARIABLES TO RETAIL
SUCCESS IS ACTUALLY CLUSTERING
AS WELL.
SO JUST DEDICATING A VERY TINY
SLIVER I GET A LITTLE BIT
OF HESITANCY.
I MEAN IT SEEMED THE CLUSTERING
IS JUST IMPORTANT WHEN YOU&apos;RE
ABLE TO DAISY CHAIN LIKE TRIPS
AND SAY LIKE I&apos;M GOING TO VISIT
THIS STORE TO GO CHECK OUT THIS
ONE.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S MY ONLY POINT
OF HESITATION.
&gt;&gt; DON&apos;T GET ME WRONG.
I MEAN I THINK IT&apos;S STILL A
GOOD GESTURE.
I I GUESS FROM MY STANDPOINT
WHERE WE WERE GOING WAS
PROBABLY AN APPROVAL WITH THE
CONDITION THAT, YOU KNOW,
WITHIN A CERTAIN, YOU KNOW,
TIME FRAME THAT&apos;S REASONABLE
THAT YOU WOULD NOT BE I MEAN
BECAUSE IT SHOULD HAVE A
SUNSET.
WHAT WE&apos;RE NOT LOOKING TO DO IS
HAVE AN ECONOMIC DEPRIVATION
OF LIKE WE DON&apos;T WANT TO HOLD
VACANT SPACE FOREVER.
LIKE THAT&apos;S NOT THAT&apos;S NOT THE
INTENT.
WE WANT TO SEE MEANINGFUL
ACTIVATION AND I THINK THE
COMMUNITY DURING THE COMMUNITY
INPUT PROCESS WHEN THIS AND BY
NO FAULT OF YOURS.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
IT&apos;S YOUR PREDECESSOR DURING
THOSE COMMUNITY MEETINGS EVEN
IF IT WASN&apos;T CODIFIED IN A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
MY GUESS IS THAT THERE WERE
DISCUSSIONS, REAL SUBSTANTIVE
DISCUSSION THAT LED PEOPLE TO
BELIEVE THAT THERE WAS GOING TO
BE RETAIL HERE.
SO I THINK THAT&apos;S PROBABLY
WHERE THE GENESIS OF A LOT
OF THIS KIND OF DISCORD AND
DISGRUNTLEMENT WITH THE GENERAL
PUBLIC IS ON THIS APPROACH.
MY CONCERN ABOUT JUST LIMITING
END CAPS IS THAT WE DON&apos;T
NECESSARILY HAVE ANY KIND
OF MEANINGFUL CLUSTERING OR
CONCENTRATION AND SO IT WOULD
BE SERVICE ONLY AND I THINK
THAT&apos;S YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S BETTER
THAN NOTHING, I&apos;LL TELL YOU
THAT.
SO YOU KNOW OF THE MINDSET THAT
YOU KNOW, A CONDITION AND
APPROVAL WITH THE CONDITION
OF LIKE A SUNSET CLAUSE OF I
DON&apos;T KNOW EIGHTEEN MONTHS OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT OF DEVOTION
OF THIS PARTICULAR SPACES.
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S DENOTED ON
EXHIBIT A1 OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT THE GEOGRAPHIC WE
BASICALLY LOCATED ON YOUR FLOOR
PLAN WOULD BE DEDICATED AS A
RETAIL USING COMMERCIALLY
REASONABLE EFFORTS TO LEASE UP
SOMETHING ALONG THOSE LINES.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THE RIGHT ANSWER
BUT I THINK WHERE WE WERE GOING
WITH IT WAS AN APPROVAL WITH A
CONDITION IN THAT RESPECT.
I&apos;M NOT SURE THAT WE CAN SET A
TIME LIMIT ON A CONDITION NOT
OK.
WE&apos;VE NEVER DONE THAT BEFORE.
I DON&apos;T THINK WE CAN DO THAT
WITHIN THE CODES SAYING LIKE
AFTER SIX MONTHS THAT CONDITION
GOES AWAY.
IT HAS TO HAVE A OR IT CAN BE
IN PERPETUITY HOUSETOP I&apos;M FINE
WITH IN PERPETUITY.
RIGHT?
I&apos;M FINE.
IT&apos;LL MAKE IF I I&apos;M FINE WITH
THAT I&apos;M FINE WITH GOING AND
SAYING THIS IS APPROVED THIS
HAS TO SAY I&apos;M FINE WITH THAT
OK SO IT COULD BE A CONDITION I
SUPPOSE AN APPROVAL WITH A
CONDITION I IT MAINLY I&apos;M
LOOKING TO TRY TO ECHO THE
SENTIMENTS OF THE FOLKS THAT
GAVE THEIR FEEDBACK DURING THE
PUBLIC FEEDBACK PROCESS WHEN
THIS WAS BEING DEVELOPED AND
FELT THAT YOU KNOW WHAT THEY
SAID WASN&apos;T REALIZED.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S IT FOR ME.
OK, WE HAD BEFORE MR.
HAMMERSCHMIDT MR. SAUVé AND
THEN I SAW COMMISSIONER IS
SOMETHING LIKE IMMEDIATELY ON
THIS PIGGYBACK THAT MAKES MORE
SENSE.
I THINK I WAS GOING TO SAY
SOMETHING THAT YOU REALIZED
AFTER VéLEZ EXPLANATION AND
LOOK, THERE&apos;S SOMETHING TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE&apos;RE CLEAR IN THE
RECORD WE GET FINAL APPROVAL ON
THAT.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I THINK
THE MAJOR PROBLEMS ARE OK.
&gt;&gt; YEAH BUT THANK YOU FOR I WAS
GOING TO DEEPLY APOLOGIZE THAT
I CAN&apos;T EVEN REMEMBER THAT ON
MY OWN THINGS I WAS EXCITED
ABOUT.
I JUST WANTED TO ASK MR. COHEN
IF HE WANTED TO ALSO WE&apos;VE
GOTTEN REALLY EXCELLENT ADVICE
FROM MR. KOWALSKI.
I WONDERED IF MR. COHEN ALSO
HAD ANYTHING THAT HE WANTED TO
SAY ABOUT THIS KIND OF YOU
KNOW, I&apos;M ALWAYS A LITTLE
NERVOUS WHEN WE AMEND THINGS AT
THE TABLE.
I ALWAYS THINK IT&apos;S GOOD THAT
WE RESPONDED.
WE RETHINK BUT SOMETIMES WE YOU
KNOW, YOU GUYS SPEND A LONG
TIME THINKING THINGS THROUGH
AND MAYBE THERE&apos;S SOMETHING
WE&apos;RE NOT SEEING.
SO I INVITE VERSION OF WHAT I
THOUGHT I WOULD ADD TO THE
CONVERSATION IS THAT THE
DEVELOPER FROM WHAT I HEARD IS
OFFERING TO CONVERT BEFORE
WESTERNMOST DWELLING UNITS THAT
ARE PROPOSED TO BE RESIDENTIAL
TO RETAIL USES.
SO THAT WOULD MEAN THAT THE
THIRTY EIGHT DWELLING UNITS ON
BOTH ENDS WOULD REMAIN AND IF
IF THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
COMFORTABLE AMENDING THE MOTION
YOU COULD AMEND IT TO SAY
SOMETHING LIKE SUBJECT TO
CONVERTING THE FOUR WESTERN
MOST DWELLING UNITS TO RETAIL
USES RESULTING IN A TOTAL
OF THIRTY EIGHT DWELLING UNITS
BEING APPROVED OR SOMETHING
ALONG THOSE LINES AND I JUST
WANT TO CLARIFY IS THE ARE IS
HE CORRECT THAT IT&apos;S THE
WESTERN MOST UNITS I THINK
ABOUT IT ON A MAP YES.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE BUT IT&apos;S MOSTLY
WESTERN OK THE TWO FURTHEST
INTO THE BUILDING IS PROBABLY
THAT ANOTHER GOOD WAY
OF LOOKING AT IT.
OK, COMMISSIONER WHITE I&apos;M JUST
MOVING OH YOU&apos;RE OK.
WELL LET&apos;S WELL WELL I DON&apos;T
THINK WE&apos;VE HAD A FORMAL NO
MOTION YET.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
BEFORE WE DO THAT THERE ARE
SOME OTHER FOLKS THAT HAD
THINGS TO SAY TO COMMISSIONER
SURVEYING ANYTHING THAT YOU
WANTED TO ADD TO THAT TO THIS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I KNOW I&apos;M GOING TO
WE&apos;RE GOING TO DO IT.
I DON&apos;T WANT TO WAIT WITH
RETAIL.
DON&apos;T KNOW HOW I IT YOU MIGHT
ACTUALLY BE TELLING YOU ALL
THIS TOO BUT I JUST
FOR THIRTY
MINUTES WE FIGURE OUT WHAT
YOU&apos;RE TALKING IN RIGHT ETC.
I&apos;M NOT EVEN SEEING THOSE 10000
SQUARE AVAILABLE SO I GUESS I&apos;M
JUST TINY I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T FEEL
LIKE I CAN&apos;T FIND IT.
CAN YOU IDENTIFY ANY OTHER
PEOPLE ON ACCOUNT OF THIS COULD
YOU.
YEAH I THINK YOU NEED TO I
DON&apos;T KNOW WHERE THOSE OTHER
TWO CAN LIKE SAYS THERE&apos;S ONLY
TWENTY FOUR HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
AVAILABLE AND THAT OUR STAFF
REPORT HAS IT&apos;S LIKE TWENTY
THREE OR TWENTY FOUR HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET I MEAN I GUESS I&apos;M
JUST I&apos;M NOT CONVINCED THAT
ENOUGH EFFORT HAS BEEN MADE.
I AGAIN I HIRE A BROKER AND I
DON&apos;T CHECK THE LISTINGS SO I
CAN&apos;T SPEAK TO WHAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S
THERE.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT BUT IT&apos;S JUST HARD FOR
US TO SORT OF SUSS OUT WHETHER
OR NOT I DON&apos;T HAVE ENOUGH IS
REALLY BEING DONE.
ARE THESE THESE ARE THE RIGHT
AND THAT&apos;S JUST IT&apos;S CONCERNING
TO ME THAT I&apos;M TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT LIKE WHERE THIS SPACE IS.
I&apos;M NOT EVEN SEEING THOSE OTHER
TWENTY THOUSAND SQUARE FEET IS
AVAILABLE.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN I MET WITH MY BROKER
IN THAT SPACE TODAY SO I I
CAN&apos;T ANSWER WHY HE DOESN&apos;T
HAVE THAT WAS RIGHT IF OR IF
IT&apos;S SOMEWHERE ELSE.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T YEAH.
I MEAN THIS IS TO LIKE I BUT I
CAN SEE BOTH SIDES OF THIS YOU
KNOW LIKE WE DON&apos;T WANT THIS
SPACE TO JUST SIT THERE EMPTY.
WE NEED HOUSING.
RIGHT.
BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW IT DOESN&apos;T
APPEAR TO ME AND I DON&apos;T KNOW
IF YOU WANT TO KNOW TO JUST
LIKE BUY JUST A QUICK LIKE
SEARCH AND YOU JUST SAID YOU&apos;RE
GETTING TONS OF INQUIRIES FOR A
PROPERTY THAT YOU&apos;RE TRYING TO
LEASE SOMETHING JUST DOESN&apos;T
DOWNTOWN.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S VERY YEAH THAT&apos;S YEAH
.
AND LET ME IF THAT&apos;S WHAT I DO
SEE LISTED ARE TWO SPACES THAT
ARE AT TWELVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET OR TWELVE NINETEEN SO IT
DOES NOT LOOK LIKE THE TEN
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT BLOCKS ARE
BEING MARKETED WHICH WOULD
INDICATE THAT THERE ISN&apos;T THE
COMMERCIAL A REASONABLE EFFORT
BEING MADE TO MARKET THOSE
SPACES.
WOULD THAT BE AN ACCURATE
STATEMENT.
&gt;&gt; NO I DON&apos;T AGREE WITH THAT.
IF MY BROKER DOESN&apos;T HAVE IT
OPERATE THE LEASING AGREEMENT
THAT I HAVE WITH HIM SAYS TO
LEASE TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND
SQUARE FOR TWENTY THREE
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED EIGHTY
FIVE SQUARE FEET ALTHOUGH I
DON&apos;T AGREE WITH THAT AT ALL.
IF THERE&apos;S AN ERROR MADE BY
BEING MADE BY MY BROKER I WILL
HAPPILY CALL MY BROKER AND TELL
HIM TO GET THOSE THINGS UP
THERE.
SURE, BUT I&apos;M TELLING YOU THAT
MY LEASING AGREEMENT IS FOR
TWENTY THREE THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED WHATEVER THAT NUMBER
IS.
&gt;&gt; SO BUT IF NOBODY KNOWS THAT
THOSE PIECES ARE AVAILABLE TO
LEASE THEN NOBODY&apos;S CONTACTING.
THAT&apos;S I MEAN I DON&apos;T KNOW IF
THAT&apos;S WHY YOU&apos;RE NOT GETTING
INQUIRIES ABOUT IT BUT I
RESPECTFULLY DISAGREE.
I THINK IF SOMEONE WANTED THAT
SPACE AND JIM CHICANAS IS AS
BIG A NAME OUT HERE AS ANYBODY
THAT THE MARKET KNOWS.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M I JUST WANT TO POINT
THAT OUT THAT I TRIED TO FIND
THIS AND IT&apos;S OUT THERE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL I&apos;LL SAY FOR NOW
,COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; SO THEY I GUESS LOOK KIND
OF LIKE I&apos;VE TALKED TO CLIENTS
WHO LOOK AT THIS SPACE AND
WALKED AWAY SO THEY&apos;RE LOOKING
THERE IS AND IT JUST DOESN&apos;T
WORK FOR EVERYTHING THAT&apos;S
POINTED.
SO THERE HAS BEEN EFFORT FOR
I&apos;VE TALKED TO PEOPLE UNDER ALL
THE OWNERSHIP SO MAYBE NOT YOU
BECAUSE IT&apos;S SO NEW BUT THAT&apos;S
I TAKE THE QUESTION OF WHY
RETAIL DOESN&apos;T WORK BECAUSE
EVERY PROJECT THAT WE ASK OR WE
ASK FOR EVERYTHING IN ONE
PROJECT WE DON&apos;T HAVE A SITE
PLAN LITE AND WE HAVE
RESISTANCE TO INCREMENTAL
COMMERCIAL NEAR NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT SHOULD BE WALKABLE BECAUSE
PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
PARKING IN FRONT OF THEIR HOUSE
AND PUBLIC STREETS THAT PEOPLE
HAVE CLAIMED TO BE THEIR OWN
PARKING.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THE KIND OF ISSUE
ABOUT WHY NEIGHBORHOODS DON&apos;T
BECOME MIXED-USE IS BECAUSE
THERE&apos;S A RESISTANCE TO
INCREMENTAL GROWTH AND WE THINK
THAT BRAND NEW EXPENSIVE
DEVELOPMENT WITH ALL THE
BURDENS WE ASK OF THEM HAVE TO
CARRY ALL THAT LOAD, CARRY ALL
THAT EXPENSE, HIT ALL OF THESE
MARKET RATES AND THEN WE WONDER
WHY IT DOESN&apos;T HAPPEN.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE A PLAN LITE SO
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHY WE HAVE THESE
NEW DEVELOPMENTS THAT DON&apos;T
WORK LIKE OLD DEVELOPMENTS DO
IN AN INCREMENTAL WAY.
&gt;&gt; THIS THE BYRANT PROJECT LIKE
WE HAVE THIS WEIRD GAP RIGHT
NOW WITH PARKING AND
EVERYTHING.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T SEE THE CONVERSATION
IN THE HOPES THAT WE&apos;RE GOING
THROUGH RIGHT NOW.
I WANT TO BE WILL THAT ENABLE
THINGS TO HAPPEN IN THIS SPACE
AND I&apos;VE LOOKED AT A RESTAURANT
I&apos;VE LOOKED AT A YOGA ISH SPACE
FOR THIS THING AND THEY ALL
SAID THEY WOULD PAY PREMIUM
SOMEWHERE ELSE.
THE AMOUNT OF T WORK THAT NEEDS
TO HAPPEN, THE PREMIUM BEING
TENANT IMPROVEMENT ALLOWANCE.
SO WHAT THE TENANT NEEDS TO PUT
INTO THE SPACE WHAT THE
LANDLORD CAN AFFORD TO PUT IN
SPACE AND THE RENT AND THEN HOW
LONG IT TAKES TO SUCCEED AND
HAVE A PROFIT MARGIN ON THAT.
THOSE ARE JUST VERY BIG HURDLES
IN THIS SPACE AND A SILO AND
DOING TWO THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
OF MAKES IT HARDER IN THE
CLUSTER PART IT&apos;S GOT TO BE A
CLUSTER OF A NEIGHBORHOOD, NOT
A CLUSTER IN A CORNER OF ONE
DEVELOPMENT.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK THAT&apos;S LESS
SUCCESSFUL.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S LIKE AN ARGUMENT TO US
PICKING WHERE THIS IS GOING TO
BE SUCCESSFUL WITHIN THIS
BUILDING.
SO I WOULDN&apos;T SUPPORT THE
MOTION.
I SUPPORT THIS AS PROPOSED.
I&apos;VE TALKED YOU KNOW, I DO A
TON OF COMMERCIAL FOR SMALL
BUSINESS RENOVATION STUFF AND I
THINK RIGHT NOW WE ACTUALLY
JUST HAVE AN ISSUE WITH OUR
ORDINANCE TO ALLOW THESE SMALL
CHANGES TO HAPPEN AND I DON&apos;T
REALLY WANT TO TALK ABOUT YOUR
BIGGER
CHANGES IN THAT
PERSPECTIVE IS INCREDIBLY
HELPFUL.
I JUST I KNOW I&apos;M SERIOUS.
I THINK WITH THAT I YEAH.
I KIND OF WISH WE WOULD HAVE
HONESTLY LIKE I DIDN&apos;T MEAN TO
MAKE YOU FEEL LIKE I WAS
ATTACKING YOU EITHER.
I JUST I JUST WANTED YOU TO SEE
WHAT I&apos;M SEEING.
BUT THAT WAS A REALLY HELPFUL
PERSPECTIVE.
&gt;&gt; I APPRECIATE YOU SHARING IT
.
&gt;&gt; SO WHERE ARE WE FOLKS?
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T HAVE A LOT TO
ADD AND I DON&apos;T WANNA TAKE UP A
LOT OF TIME OBVIOUSLY I THINK
THE PRIMARY REASON WHY THIS
CONVERSATION HAS BEEN
FRUSTRATING IS THAT THE
MISINFORMATION THAT THIS WAS A
PUDI AND THERE ARE LIKE
INFORMED MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY WHO HAVE A HISTORY ON
PLANNING COMMISSION WHO HAVE
WRITTEN BLOG POSTS ABOUT THIS
AS AS IT WAS ABOUT HOW IT WAS A
PUDI AND WHY ARE BAD BECAUSE
THEY&apos;RE INFLEXIBLE.
SO I JUST WANT TO BE VERY CLEAR
TO ANYONE WHO&apos;S LISTENING OUT
THERE THERE WAS NEVER AGREEMENT
WITH THE DEVELOPER AS FAR AS WE
UNDERSTAND THIS IS NOT A PUDI.
THIS IS A THIS IS A DEPARTMENT
THAT MEETS THE ORDINANCE
ACCORDING TO THE ZONING THAT IT
IS.
AND SO I&apos;M NOT IT&apos;S CONFUSING
TO ME THAT WE&apos;RE YEAH.
THAT WE ARE KIND OF WRINGING
OUR HANDS OVER THIS.
I ALSO SAY I ALSO LAMENT THE
FACT THAT THERE IS NOT RETAIL
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD AND THAT
THERE IS NOT MORE MIXED USE AND
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT I THINK
THIS COMMISSION IS COMMITTED TO
WORKING ON.
&gt;&gt; BUT I DON&apos;T THINK IT HAS
IT&apos;S GOING TO HAPPEN IN THIS
PROJECT.
OH, I THINK THIS HAS BEEN A
REALLY ACTUALLY HELPFUL
DISCUSSION AND I THINK THAT
WHEN WE AGREED AS I FORGOT THAT
NOT EVERYTHING WILL GO TO
COUNCIL.
THIS IS THE KIND OF THING THAT
WE WILL NEED TO TALK ABOUT HERE
BECAUSE WE NEED TO HEAR WE NEED
TO HEAR CONFUSION.
WE NEED TO CLARIFY CONFUSION.
WE NEED TO TRY TO AVOID
CREATING MORE CONFUSION.
BUT THIS WILL BE PART OF OUR
JOB AND TO DO THE KIND OF WORK
THAT COMMISSIONER WELCH DID IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD WAS ENORMOUSLY
HELPFUL BECAUSE BECAUSE THE
FACT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
RESIDENTS SAID WHEN WE WERE
GOING TO MAKE THAT CHANGE WERE
BY RIGHT SIDE APPROVALS WOULD
GO TO COUNCIL ANYMORE EVEN IF
THIS ONE REALLY WOULD NEVER
HAVE GONE TO COUNCIL.
THEY WERE CONCERNED THAT THEY
WOULD LOSE THE PLACE TO BE
HEARD AND BE RESPONDED TO AND I
DIDN&apos;T THINK THEY WOULD AND WE
HAVE SHOWN THAT THEY WON&apos;T
BECAUSE WE DELIBERATED THE
ISSUES THAT WERE RAISED.
AND SO WHERE WE ARE RIGHT NOW
IS WE HAVE THE MOTION WE HAVE A
POTENTIAL AMENDMENT TO THE
MOTION WHICH SOME OF US FEEL
MIGHT BE A GOOD THING AND
OTHERS OF US HAVE SUGGESTED
MIGHT JUST BE A SYMBOLIC THING
THAT DOESN&apos;T DOESN&apos;T DOESN&apos;T
GET WHAT PEOPLE REALLY WANT IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH IS
SERVICES WITHIN WALKING
DISTANCE.
AND SO I THINK THAT WE SHOULD
PROPOSE THE MOTION THE
AMENDMENT THAT AND THEN VOTE
YES OR NO ON IT.
I MEAN I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THIS IS
HOW TO DO IT.
COMMISSIONER MILLS IS NODDING
HER HEAD AND SHE&apos;S USED TO
DOING SO.
I THINK WE SHOULD PROPOSE THE
MOTION BECAUSE WE DISCUSSED IT
AND MR. CAN&apos;T GIVE US LANGUAGE
I MEAN THE AMENDMENT, THE
AMENDMENT AND THEN EITHER WE WE
APPROVE THE MOTION AS AMENDED
OR WE APPROVE THE MOTION AS IT
WAS PRESENTED EARLIER.
YEAH, WE VOTE ON IT.
YEAH.
I&apos;M SORRY.
I DIDN&apos;T MEAN THAT.
I DIDN&apos;T MEAN YEAH.
VOTE VOTE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH NO THERE&apos;S ONLY ONE
THING TO VOTE OK SO OK SURE.
SO WHO THIS OLD OK SO THE
MOTION THAT THE THE ORIGINAL
MOTION ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT
THE AMENDMENT TO THE MOTION
WHAT WE DO WITH THE AMENDMENT
AND YOUR VOTE OR DOWN AND THEN
YOU READ THE WHOLE NOTION
EITHER OK OR AS AMERICANS WE
APPROVE THE WE DID VOTE WELL OK
SO THE AMENDMENT THEN WOULD BE
OFFERING TO CONVERT THE FOUR
WESTERN MOST DWELLING UNITS
RETAIL USE 38 UNITS WOULD
REMAIN.
YEAH YEAH.
THAT&apos;S IT.
&gt;&gt; BUT BY MOVE MY COMMISSIONER
AND SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
DISH SO WE WILL HAVE A
OH YES
NO FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THIS
OR DO WE ALL KIND OF KNOW WHERE
WE ARE?
COMMISSIONER MILLER, I DO HAVE
A QUESTION FOR STAFF IF WE WANT
TO BE CLEAR IF WE WERE TO
APPROVE THE NEW AMENDMENT
TONIGHT THEY WOULD IF THEY
WANTED TO CONVERT THOSE FOUR
WESTERNMOST UNITS TO RETAIL,
THEY WOULD HAVE TO COME BACK TO
US THROUGH THE SAME PROCESS IF
WE WERE TO APPROVE THE SITE
PLAN THAT WE SEE TONIGHT WITH
THE FORTY TWO DWELLING UNITS ON
IT IF THEY CHOOSE NOT TO DO
THEY HAVE TO BUILD OUT ALL
FORTY TWO UNITS THEY OR CAN
THEY COULD JUST KEEP THE THIRTY
EIGHT I WANT TO MAKE I WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT LIKE WE&apos;RE
UNDERSTAND LIKE I UNDERSTAND
THIS YES.
&gt;&gt; NOW CONFRONT MR. COBB ARE
YOU STILL LISTENING.
YEAH HE&apos;S STILL THERE.
THAT&apos;S CORRECT YES THAT IS
CORRECT.
SORRY I&apos;M WITH JEFF AS WELL.
THEY CAN&apos;T THEY CAN&apos;T ADD UNITS
RIGHT NOW THEY COULDN&apos;T HAVE
THEM WITHOUT OUR APPROVAL BUT
THEY DON&apos;T HAVE TO BUILD THEM.
THEY CAN JUST KEEP AS IT IS
CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; THEY DON&apos;T HAVE TO BUILD THE
ENTIRE THING AS SHOWN RIGHT.
WHAT I&apos;M HEARING IS THEY
WOULDN&apos;T HAVE TO BUILD THE
ENTIRE THING.
THEY WOULD HAVE TO CHANGE SOME
THINGS.
THEY WOULD HAVE TO ADD
PRESUMABLY THE BICYCLE PARKING
BECAUSE THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT DOESN&apos;T CURRENTLY
OUR STANDARD THEY WOULD WANT TO
MOVE THEIR TRASH SO IT&apos;S NOT
OUTSIDE PEOPLE&apos;S RIGHT DOORS
BUT THEY DON&apos;T HAVE TO BUILD
THEM UP IN THAT CASE AGAIN TO
ALLOW FOR THE FLEXIBILITY THAT
THIS ZONING DISTRICT ALLOWS FOR
EVEN THOUGH I STRONGLY SUPPORT
THE IDEA OF NEIGHBORHOOD
RESIDENTIAL, I THINK IT
PROVIDES THE MOST FLEXIBILITY
TO APPROVE THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
COMMERCIAL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I THINK IT MAKES SENSE TO
APPROVE THIS TO ALLOW FOR THAT
MAXIMUM FLEXIBILITY AND HOPE
THAT THERE&apos;S A LOT MORE EFFORT
PUT INTO THE KIND INNOVATIVE
NOT TWENTY EIGHT DOLLARS TRIPLE
NET BUT FIGURING OUT LIKE AN
ALTERNATE ARRANGEMENT TO GET
THAT COFFEE SHOP THERE IS WHAT
THAT&apos;S HOW I WILL BE VOTING
DOWN THE AMENDMENT BECAUSE I
THINK THAT VOTING IT DOWN
ALLOWS FOR THE MAXIMUM
FLEXIBILITY
.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION I SEE YOU
TALKING OVER THERE SO THERE&apos;S
DISCUSSION IT WHICH I&apos;M HAPPY
TO DO THIS I CAN ARE OK WITH
DRUG.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU&apos;RE WITHDRAWING THE
AMENDMENT THAT OK THE TABLE IS
GOOD.
THEY GIVE THE FLEXIBILITY.
I JUST WANTED I MEAN YEAH IF WE
HAD THE AGREEMENT WITH THE
MOTION DOES PUT IT IN WRITING
IF WE&apos;RE SAYING THAT WE REALLY
WANT IS THE FLEXIBILITY THEN WE
SHOULD TAKE THAT OUT SO THAT WE
PROVIDE THE MOST FLEXIBILITY SO
I&apos;M SORRY THANK YOU THAT PUBLIC
I ALREADY SO WITHDRAWN AND SO
NOW WE ARE BACK TO OUR ORIGINAL
MOTION.
&gt;&gt; SHALL I READ IT AGAIN OR WE
WILL GO OK.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT LET&apos;S HAVE A VOTE
WHERE ELSE WE&apos;RE ALL SAYING OK
OK COMMISSIONER MILLS YES
COMMISSIONER GET RANDALL YES.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER.
YES AND COMMISSIONER WHICH YES.
MOTION PASSES THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALREADY I WOULD LIKE
TO HAVE US TAKE A TEN MINUTE
BREAK SO LET&apos;S COME BACK IN TEN
MINUTES FOLKS.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT&apos;S LIKE
PEOPLE IN
THE ROOM CAN SEE THESE VERY
IDEA.
&gt;&gt; HERE WE GO.
OK, ALL RIGHT SORRY ABOUT THERE
WE ARE BACK IN SESSION TO MOVE
ON TO ITEM EIGHT C WHICH IS
THIRTEEN ON ONE MORNINGSIDE
DRIVE THIS IS ITEM NUMBER
TWENTY TWO DASH ONE THREE THREE
TWO.
A SPECIAL EXEMPTION USED FOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL REQUEST FOR A CHILD
CARE CENTER FOR UP TO FORTY
CHILDREN ATTEND CAREGIVERS AND
THE EXISTING BUILDING WITH A
SITE PLANNED TO SHOW EXISTING
STAFF CAN CONDITIONS STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL WITH
CONDITIONS.
SO I THINK WE ARE UP THEN FOR
THE PETITIONER PRESENTATION
FIVE MINUTES
WE CAN HEAR YOU GO
AHEAD.
OK, THANK YOU.
OH MY NAME IS LAST NAME IS G
WITH R. MY MY PARTNER IS MY
WIFE PAM AND ERIKA HARWOOD ARE
THE POWERPLAYS AND WE ARE
APPLYING FOR A SPECIAL
EXECUTIVES FOR HER FACILITY AT
MORNINGSIDE.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY SLIDES LIKE A
PREVIOUS PRESENTER DID BUT I DO
HAVE A FEW NOTES BASED MOSTLY
ON THE COMMENTS THAT CAME IN
WRITTEN FORM AND IF I COULD
JUST HIGHLIGHT A FEW THINGS
AROUND THE JUST THE QUESTIONS
AND CONCERNS RAISED, THE FIRST
THING I&apos;D LIKE TO HIGHLIGHT IS
THE NUMBER OF CHILDREN AND THE
NUMBER OF STAFF WE PUT FORTY
CHILDREN OUT THERE BASED ON THE
SQUARE FOOTAGE OF THE BUILDING
AND THE LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
FOR FOUR CHILDREN AT A THIRTY
FIVE SQUARE FEET OR CHILD.
WE DON&apos;T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT
LICENSING IS GOING TO APPROVE
FOR US.
I MEAN IT&apos;S KIND OF A CHICKEN
NEXT THING WE HAVE TO GET HELP
FROM MR. GUY, YOU&apos;RE BREAKING
UP ON US CANET MR. GEY MR. GUI
WE JUST LOST ABOUT THIRTY
SECONDS OF WHAT YOU SAID.
&gt;&gt; YOU YOU YOUR CONNECTION
ISN&apos;T VERY STRONG.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT?
I&apos;M SORRY YOU WERE TALKING
ABOUT CHICKEN AND EGG THING.
YES.
I THOUGHT TODAY SO WHAT I&apos;M
SAYING IS THAT WE WE DON&apos;T KNOW
EXACTLY HOW MANY CHILDREN WILL
BE LICENSED FOR IT UNTIL THE
STATE GIVES US A LICENSE.
THE NUMBER FORTY IS AN ESTIMATE
BASED ON THE SQUARE FOOTAGE BUT
THAT&apos;S NOT THE NUMBER OF THE
OFFICIAL NUMBER COMES FROM
LICENSING AND REGULATORY
AFFAIRS.
WE EXPECT THAT THAT IT WILL
PROBABLY BE LOWER THAN THAT.
AND WE ALSO WANT TO MENTION
THAT THE RATIO FOR OLDER
CHILDREN THAT THE FOUR TO ONE
RATIO IS BASED ON THE YOUNGEST
CHILD, THE YOUNGEST AGE GROUP.
THE RATIO FOR OLDER CHILDREN IS
EIGHT TO ONE.
OBVIOUSLY WE&apos;RE NOT GOING TO
HAVE ALL BABIES.
HAVE ALL PRESCHOOLERS.
OBVIOUSLY WE&apos;RE NOT GOING TO
SO THE ACTUAL NUMBER
HAVE ALL PRESCHOOLERS.
OF CAREGIVERS IS GOING TO BE
SO THE ACTUAL NUMBER
SOMETHING PROBABLY ALSO LOWER
OF CAREGIVERS IS GOING TO BE
THAN TEN.
SOMETHING PROBABLY ALSO LOWER
&gt;&gt; SO THE NUMBERS ARE OUR
THAN TEN.
ESTIMATES AND WE&apos;RE PUTTING
&gt;&gt; SO THE NUMBERS ARE OUR
THOSE OUT THERE MOSTLY TO HAVE
ESTIMATES AND WE&apos;RE PUTTING
SOME NUMBERS TO WORK WITH.
THOSE OUT THERE MOSTLY TO HAVE
THE SECOND POINT I WANTED TO
SOME NUMBERS TO WORK WITH.
MAKE IS ABOUT THE DROP OFF AND
THE SECOND POINT I WANTED TO
UNLIKE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS OR
MAKE IS ABOUT THE DROP OFF AND
MIDDLE SCHOOLS.
UNLIKE ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS OR
SO COURSE I THINK LINES ARE
MIDDLE SCHOOLS.
CLOSE BY TO THIS ADDRESS UNLIKE
SO COURSE I THINK LINES ARE
THOSE THOSE SCHOOLS THERE IS
CLOSE BY TO THIS ADDRESS UNLIKE
NOT A DESIGNATED START TIME OR
THOSE THOSE SCHOOLS THERE IS
DESIGNATED IN TIME FOR DAYCARE.
NOT A DESIGNATED START TIME OR
PARENTS BRING THEIR CHILDREN
DESIGNATED IN TIME FOR DAYCARE.
WHEN THEIR SCHEDULES DICTATE
PARENTS BRING THEIR CHILDREN
THAT THEY BRING THEM AND WHAT
WHEN THEIR SCHEDULES DICTATE
WE FOUND IN OUR CURRENT
THAT THEY BRING THEM AND WHAT
LOCATION IS THAT THAT OFTEN
WE FOUND IN OUR CURRENT
PICK UP TIME IS SPREAD OUT OVER
LOCATION IS THAT THAT OFTEN
SEVERAL HOURS THAT THERE IS NOT
PICK UP TIME IS SPREAD OUT OVER
A RUSH OF TRAFFIC A PARTICULAR
SEVERAL HOURS THAT THERE IS NOT
TIME THE A FEW HERE, A FEW
A RUSH OF TRAFFIC A PARTICULAR
THERE AND THERE AND SO IT
TIME THE A FEW HERE, A FEW
DOESN&apos;T HAPPEN THAT ALL AT ONCE
THERE AND THERE AND SO IT
AND LIKEWISE WITH PICKUP THAT
DOESN&apos;T HAPPEN THAT ALL AT ONCE
THERE IS ONLY PEOPLE COMING
AND LIKEWISE WITH PICKUP THAT
WHEN THEIR SCHEDULES DICTATE
THERE IS ONLY PEOPLE COMING
THAT THEY COME.
WHEN THEIR SCHEDULES DICTATE
AND SO THERE IS NOT A BIG RUSH
THAT THEY COME.
OF TRAFFIC IN ANY PARTICULAR
AND SO THERE IS NOT A BIG RUSH
POINT IN THE DAY.
OF TRAFFIC IN ANY PARTICULAR
&gt;&gt; ANOTHER POINT THAT I WANTED
POINT IN THE DAY.
TO MAKE IS ABOUT THE NUMBER
&gt;&gt; ANOTHER POINT THAT I WANTED
OF CARS SO WE HAVE EXPERIENCED
TO MAKE IS ABOUT THE NUMBER
IN OUR CURRENT LOCATION THAT
OF CARS SO WE HAVE EXPERIENCED
THE NUMBER OF CARS THAT
IN OUR CURRENT LOCATION THAT
BUSINESS PLACES IS SMALLER THAN
THE NUMBER OF CARS THAT
THE NUMBER OF CHILDREN AND
BUSINESS PLACES IS SMALLER THAN
THERE ARE TWO REASONS FOR THIS
THE NUMBER OF CHILDREN AND
.
THERE ARE TWO REASONS FOR THIS
THE FIRST IS THAT WE HAVE AND
.
WE EXPECT THAT THERE WILL BE
THE FIRST IS THAT WE HAVE AND
SIBLING GROUPS AT OUR NEW
WE EXPECT THAT THERE WILL BE
LOCATION AS WELL.
SIBLING GROUPS AT OUR NEW
AND SO OBVIOUSLY A SIBLING
LOCATION AS WELL.
GROUP ALL COMES IN THE SAME CAR
AND SO OBVIOUSLY A SIBLING
AND SO THAT REDUCES THE NUMBER
GROUP ALL COMES IN THE SAME CAR
OF CARS.
AND SO THAT REDUCES THE NUMBER
THE OTHER THING IS THAT ONE
OF CARS.
OF THE REALLY GREAT THINGS
THE OTHER THING IS THAT ONE
ABOUT THIS NEIGHBORHOOD AND
OF THE REALLY GREAT THINGS
ABOUT THE NEIGHBORHOOD WE&apos;RE
ABOUT THIS NEIGHBORHOOD AND
CURRENTLY IN ON, PATRICIA, IS
ABOUT THE NEIGHBORHOOD WE&apos;RE
THAT IT&apos;S VERY WALKABLE AND WE
CURRENTLY IN ON, PATRICIA, IS
DO HAVE FAMILIES THAT WALK OUT
THAT IT&apos;S VERY WALKABLE AND WE
ARE CLOSING OFF.
DO HAVE FAMILIES THAT WALK OUT
&gt;&gt; AS A MATTER OF FACT, WHEN WE
ARE CLOSING OFF.
HAD OUR PUBLIC MEETING BACK IN
&gt;&gt; AS A MATTER OF FACT, WHEN WE
JUNE, THERE WERE TWO PEOPLE WHO
HAD OUR PUBLIC MEETING BACK IN
CAME TO PUBLIC MEETING
JUNE, THERE WERE TWO PEOPLE WHO
SPECIFICALLY BECAUSE THEY LIVE
CAME TO PUBLIC MEETING
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND WE&apos;RE
SPECIFICALLY BECAUSE THEY LIVE
INTERESTED IN CARE FOR THEIR
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND WE&apos;RE
CHILDREN.
INTERESTED IN CARE FOR THEIR
&gt;&gt; SO WE KNOW THAT THERE IS
CHILDREN.
INTEREST FOR WALKABLE CHILD
&gt;&gt; SO WE KNOW THAT THERE IS
CARE.
INTEREST FOR WALKABLE CHILD
&gt;&gt; THERE WAS THIS PAST WEEK AT
CARE.
THE VARIOUS BOARD ABOUT PARKING
&gt;&gt; THERE WAS THIS PAST WEEK AT
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WAS
THE VARIOUS BOARD ABOUT PARKING
MENTIONED IN THE COMMENTS WAS
AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WAS
ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY
MENTIONED IN THE COMMENTS WAS
OF PARKING LOT WE DON&apos;T LIKE
ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY
THAT IDEA FOR SEVERAL REASONS.
OF PARKING LOT WE DON&apos;T LIKE
FIRSTLY BECAUSE IT WOULD
THAT IDEA FOR SEVERAL REASONS.
REQUIRE THE REMOVAL OF MORE
FIRSTLY BECAUSE IT WOULD
MATURE TREES AND WE OBVIOUSLY
REQUIRE THE REMOVAL OF MORE
DON&apos;T LIKE THAT.
MATURE TREES AND WE OBVIOUSLY
SECONDLY, IT WOULD CREATE A
DON&apos;T LIKE THAT.
LARGE AREA OF IMPERMEABLE
SECONDLY, IT WOULD CREATE A
SURFACE AND WE DON&apos;T WANT TO DO
LARGE AREA OF IMPERMEABLE
THAT AND THEN IT WOULD IT WOULD
SURFACE AND WE DON&apos;T WANT TO DO
ALSO TAKE AWAY FROM THE
THAT AND THEN IT WOULD IT WOULD
PLAYGROUND SPACE THAT WE HAVE
ALSO TAKE AWAY FROM THE
THERE AND IT IS REQUIRED BY
PLAYGROUND SPACE THAT WE HAVE
LICENSING AND THEN IT WOULD
THERE AND IT IS REQUIRED BY
JUST NOT FIT
VERY WELL IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD TO HAVE A PARKING
LOT ON THAT PARTICULAR
LOCATION.
SO THOSE ARE THE REASONS.
YEAH.
AND GETTING GETTING A LOT
OF CARS IN THERE WOULD WOULD BE
A REAL ISSUE.
SO THAT&apos;S THE REASON WHY WE&apos;RE
WE&apos;RE NOT PROPOSING TO BUILD A
PARKING LOT BUT TALKING ABOUT
PLAYGROUND SPACE, THERE WAS
ALSO COMMENTS ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF LOOKING AT
COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES AND WE
DID IN FACT LOOK AT COMMERCIAL
WHEN WE LOOKED AT QUITE A FEW
OF THEM AND UNIFORMLY WHAT WE
FOUND IS THAT WHILE THERE WAS
PLENTY OF SPACE AVAILABLE
INDOORS, THEY ALMOST NEVER HAD
OUTDOOR SPACE AND OUTDOOR SPACE
IS A REQUIREMENT FOR LICENSING
FOR CHILD CARE.
SO THOSE PROPERTIES WERE JUST
NOT A WORKABLE WE WOULDN&apos;T HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO RUN TO QUALIFY FOR
OUR LICENSE.
AND THEN THE LAST POINT THAT
I&apos;D LIKE TO MAKE IS THAT THERE
IS A LOT OF PRECEDENT FOR THIS
PARTICULAR KIND OF SPACE.
FOR INSTANCE, THERE ARE A
COUPLE OF LOCATIONS THAT
REGGIE&apos;S HOUSE ONE ON ONE ON
MOUNT VERNON THAT ARE LIKEWISE
LOCATED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS IN
FACT ONE I&apos;M NOT BURNING IF YOU
LOOK WEBSITE THEY LOOK 17 STAFF
AND THERE&apos;S ALSO A LOCATION ON
H STREET AS A LOCATION ON
MILLER AVENUE.
THERE&apos;S A LOCATION ON FIFTH
AVENUE.
&gt;&gt; ALL OF THESE ARE IN
RESIDENTIAL AREAS AND AND THEY
ARE SUCCESSFUL AND WILL
INTEGRATED INTO THE COMMUNITY
AT THOSE LOCATIONS.
SO THERE IS PLENTY OF PRECEDENT
FOR FOR DOING WHAT WE&apos;RE
PROPOSING.
SO THOSE ARE THE POINTS THAT
I&apos;D LIKE TO MAKE.
I WOULD BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO
RESPOND TO ANY QUESTIONS AND TO
EXPLAIN MORE ABOUT WHAT WE DO
AND WHY WE DO IT.
I CAN TELL YOU ALSO THAT THERE
IS A LOT OF INTEREST IN CHILD
CARE.
WE ALREADY HAVE A DOZEN
FAMILIES THAT HAVE PUT DOWN THE
DEPOSIT AND WE GET CALLS EVERY
DAY.
WE HAVE THE INTERVIEW WITH THEM
THIS MORNING.
SO THERE&apos;S A LOT NEED.
PARENTS ARE DESPERATE FOR CHILD
CARE AND A REAL PASSION FOR
THAT AND WE&apos;D REALLY LIKE TO DO
WHAT WE CAN TO HELP WITH THAT.
THANK THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
STAFF PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; MR. CHANG
.
OK, I DO HAVE A PRESENTATION.
IT&apos;S SOMEWHAT BRIEF BUT CAN YOU
SEE THE SLIDESHOW?
&gt;&gt; YES, WE CAN.
YES.
EXCELLENT.
AND YOU CAN HEAR ME OK?
YEP.
EXCELLENT OK.
OH THE LOCATION IS AT THIRTEEN
ZERO ONE MORNINGSIDE DRIVE
WHICH IS NORTH OF MILLER AND TO
THE WEST OF NEWPORT AND IT&apos;S ON
THE WEST SIDE OF MORNINGSIDE
DRIVE AS YOU CAN SEE FROM THE
MAP IT&apos;S JUST SOUTH FORSIGHT
MIDDLE SCHOOL AND WINZ
ELEMENTARY HERE THE CLOSE UP
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD IT IS ON
OUR ONE SEE SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL.
THAT IS WHY A CHILD CARE CENTER
IS REQUIRED TO GET A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE IN A SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING NEIGHBORHOOD.
HERE IS ANOTHER CLOSE UP OF THE
ACTUAL HOUSE TO APPROXIMATELY
THREE THOUSAND SQUARE FEET ONE
STOREY THEY&apos;RE ASKING FOR UP TO
I THINK THAT WAS MENTIONED
EARLIER.
FORTY KIDS WITH TEN CAREGIVERS
THEY DID IN FACT RECEIVE A
VARIANCE FROM THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS FROM EIGHT PARKING
SPACES.
THEY DO HAVE A CARPORT THAT&apos;S
IN FRONT OF THIS HOUSE THAT A
COUPLE OF THE CAREGIVERS COULD
PARK, THAT THEY COULD ACTUALLY
PARK PROBABLY ANOTHER FIVE CARS
IN THAT DRIVEWAY.
&gt;&gt; BUT WE WILL MANEUVER OUT IF
THEY HAPPEN TO BE ONE IN THE
CAR PARK SO THEY IN FACT GET AN
EIGHT SPACE MAZDA.
THIS IS ALSO WITHIN THE FIFTY
FEET OF THE RESIDENCE AND THEY
CAN PARK APPROXIMATELY TWENTY
FIVE CARS THAT WOULD
ACCOMMODATE THAT PICKUP AND
DROP OFF THE KIDS AGAIN.
HERE IS AN AREA OF THE SAME
HOUSE WITHIN TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
FEET THERE IS PARKING ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE STREET FRONTING
THIS HOUSE ALONG MORNINGSIDE
DRIVE AND WE CAN REFER BACK TO
ANY OF THESE SLIDES IF YOU&apos;D
LIKE TO IF YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS ON THEM.
AND I&apos;M ALSO HERE FOR ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MAY HAVE.
THANK YOU ALREADY NOW WE WILL
MOVE ONTO THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES.
WELL, FIRST CALL IN INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE PRESENT IN THE ROOM AND
THEN MOVE ON TO THOSE WHO ARE
REMOTE TO SPEAK REMOTELY.
YOU PRESS STAR NINE BY
LISTENING TO THE PHONE ARE USED
TO RAISE YOUR HAND FEATURE FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL 877 EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
IN OUR MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS IN
THE LAST THREE IT IS YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME.
YOU&apos;LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK AND WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND A TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND THEN HIT
STAR SIX TWO ON MUTE FOR EITHER
METHOD OR PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
WE WILL START WITH ANYBODY IN
THE ROOM HERE.
WOULD ANYBODY BE ABLE TO SPEAK
ON THIS PETITION FOR THREE
MINUTES COME RIGHT UP AND
INTRODUCE YOURSELF
AND MY
DESCRIBER ELEVEN THIRTEEN TEN
MORNING MORNINGSIDE.
I LIVED THERE FOR FIFTY YEARS
FOR 40 OR 45 YEARS AGO.
I CALLED THIS EVENT A STEP SIGN
AT THE CORNER AND THE STOP SIGN
DIDN&apos;T DO WHAT I&apos;D HOPED.
IT REALLY DOESN&apos;T SLOW PEOPLE
DOWN THAT MANY PEOPLE DON&apos;T
DON&apos;T HESITATE TO TURN THE
CORNER.
THE NEIGHBORHOOD IS FILLED WITH
NO CHILDREN BECAUSE YOU&apos;RE KIND
OF TURNING OVER ITS
NEIGHBORHOOD STILL IT&apos;S A HILL
AND I JUST SEE KIDS RIDING
BIKES, SCOOTERS, EVERYTHING
DOWN THE HILL.
I WORRY ABOUT THE PARKING LOT
CHANGING OVER THE DRIVEWAY ALSO
IN THE MORNING AND AT NIGHT
PEOPLE DRIVE THEIR CHILDREN
RIGHT AT THE TOP OF THE HILL.
THERE&apos;S A WALKWAY THERE.
YOU HAVE YOUR CHILD UP IN THERE
ALMOST FOUR TIMES.
YOU AVOID THE PARKING OR
PARKING LOT AT FIRST.
HEY, I JUST BRINGING A LOT OF A
LOT OF TRAFFIC TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BEYOND WHAT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD CAN HANDLE.
THE CITY SEEMS TO BE QUIETING
STREETS BUT THIS SEEMS TO BE
ACCENTUATING THE ACTIVITY.
I HAVE HAD THAT EXPERIENCE ON
MY PLEASANT WHERE I PICKED UP A
FRIEND OF MINE TO GO TO THE Y
AND IT&apos;S VERY, VERY WITH PEOPLE
DROPPING OFF THEIR CHILDREN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WOULD ANYONE ELSE LIKE TO COME
UP AND SPEAK
?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;VE LIVED IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD SINCE 1960.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU COULD PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS.
PARENTS FIRST HEARD TO ONE TWO
FOUR FOUR WESTPORT ROAD HOME I
LOOK FOR HOUSES FROM THE
PROPOSED SITE THE I&apos;VE LIVED
THERE SINCE NINETEEN SIXTY NINE
AND THIS WHOLE AS YOU SAW FROM
THE MAP THIS WHOLE AREA IS A
RESIDENTIAL AREA SINGLE SINGLE
FAMILY AND THERE&apos;S JUST THIS IS
ONE ISOLATED BLIP IN THIS WHOLE
MAP OF NINETEEN FIFTIES
SOMEWHAT HOMOGENEOUS HOMES PUT
IN BY NEIL STABLER AT THE TIME
AND I DON&apos;T THINK THE
COMMERCIAL SCHOOL LIKE THIS HAS
ANY BUSINESS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD I&apos;D LIKE TO ALSO
TALK ABOUT THE ASSERTION KIDS
COULD WALK TO SCHOOL ON MY WIFE
.
I WALK AROUND THE NEIGHBORHOOD
SAY WITHIN A MILE OF THE HOUSE
ALL OVER THE PLACE THERE ARE
VERY FEW PEOPLE AS CHILDREN
LEFT WITH AGE.
THE PEOPLE WHO WERE THE SURVEYS
VERY FEW PEOPLE HAVE MOVED OUT
VERY, VERY FEW NEW PEOPLE HAVE
MOVED IN AND IT&apos;S OBVIOUS WHEN
YOU SEE CHILDREN THERE JUST
AREN&apos;T MANY AROUND THERE.
YES, TO SCHOOLS OR NEARBY
FORSYTH AND TAPAN BUT I&apos;M
TALKING ABOUT THE HOMES SO I
THINK THAT THE WHOLE IDEA
OF HAVING A HIGH SCHOOL IN THE
MIDDLE OF THIS IT MAY SOUND
LIKE A NIMBY PROTEST HERE AND
IT PROBABLY IS I MIGHT MENTION
THAT TWO DOORS DOWN FROM THE
SCHOOL IN EACH DIRECTION ARE
PEOPLE WITH VICIOUS DOGS AND
ONE PERSON EVEN HAS A NICE
DRAINAGE PONDS ABOUT THREE FEET
DEEP FOR PEOPLE TO FALL INTO.
BUT THAT&apos;S BESIDE THE POINT I
JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT THIS IS
NOT A GOOD IDEA AND I HOPE THAT
YOU&apos;LL TURN THIS DOWN.
WE&apos;VE GOT OF ALL PEOPLE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD I MAY BE AMONG THE
OLDEST BUT THE YOUNG KIDS AND
OLD PEOPLE ARE IFFY AT BEST AND
I HOPE THIS WON&apos;T COME TO PASS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME&apos;S LEE ROSEVELT.
I LIVE AT TWELVE FIFTY SIX
WESTPORT WHICH IS TWO DOORS
DOWN FROM THE PROPOSED CHILD
CARE CENTER.
I ABSOLUTELY EMPATHIZE WITH THE
NEED FOR MORE CHILD CARE.
I&apos;M A NURSE MIDWIFE.
I WORK WITH FAMILIES EVERY DAY
THAT ARE ATTEMPTING TO FIND
CHILD CARE THE TYPE OF CHILD
CARE THAT WE&apos;RE ACTUALLY
MISSING IN THIS CITY IS
SUBSIDIZED CHILD CARE THAT&apos;S
AFFORDABLE FOR PEOPLE PEOPLE
THAT CAN AFFORD PRIVATE IN-HOME
CHILD CARE FIGURE OUT A WAY TO
MAKE THEIR CHILD CARE
SITUATIONS WORK THIS THIS THE
CHILD&apos;S PLACE DOES NOT TAKE
STATE SUBSIDIES FOR KIDS SO
THIS WILL NOT INCREASE
AFFORDABLE CHILD CARE IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
I&apos;M ALSO THE MOTHER OF AN
AUTISTIC CHILD.
I CHOSE TO MOVE TO THIS AREA
BECAUSE IT&apos;S A QUIET AREA.
THERE ARE KIDS RIDING BIKES IN
THE STREET SAFELY.
IT FELT LIKE A NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT I COULD RAISE MY SON IN
SAFELY.
IF YOU&apos;RE ADDING 50 CARS INTO
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT
ACTUALLY MAKES IT WORSE TO ME
THAT THERE&apos;S NOT A SET PICK UP
AND DROP OFF TIME RIGHT NOW.
I KNOW WHEN FORSAYTH LETS OUT
THAT THAT&apos;S NOT A SAFE TIME FOR
MY SON TO BE ABLE TO PLAY
OUTSIDE.
BUT IF YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT THE
HOURS FROM SEVEN A.M. TO SIX
P.M. THAT PRETTY MUCH MEANS
THAT THE ENTIRE FRONT AREA
OF OUR HOUSE FOR OUR KIDS IS
NOT ACCESSIBLE FOR THEM AND IS
NOT A SAFE PLACE FOR THEM TO BE
WITHOUT CONSTANT ADULT
SUPERVISION.
I&apos;M CONFUSED BY THE ASSERTION
THAT THEY&apos;RE NOT CHILDREN IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE ARE MANY, MANY CHILDREN
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
MY SON PLAYS WITH THE CHILDREN,
THE NEIGHBORHOOD THEY RIDE
THEIR BIKES AROUND ADDING IN 50
CARS TWICE A DAY INTO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD DOES NOT CREATE
LIVABLE SPACE FOR THE KIDS THAT
ARE LIVING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I AM PLEASED TO HEAR THAT THEY
ARE GOING TO BE BUILDING AN
ADDITIONAL PARKING LOT BECAUSE
THAT WOULD BE AN ADDITIONAL
HARDSHIP FOR THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT I REALLY IF THE CITY IS
GOING TO APPROVE THIS, I REALLY
WISH THE CITY WOULD SORT
OF HAVE SOME VERY CLEAR
OBJECTIVES OF WHAT IT&apos;S GOING
TO LOOK LIKE TO MAKE THIS A
SAFE AREA FOR OUR KIDS TO PLAY
THE HILL THAT GOES IMMEDIATELY
UP WESTPORT THAT ENDS AT THIS
IS NOT VISIBLE.
PEOPLE COME FLYING UP THAT HILL
QUITE FREQUENTLY.
PARENTS HAVE BEEN OUT THERE
ENCOURAGING PEOPLE TO SLOW DOWN
FREQUENTLY AND AS A RESULT
WE&apos;VE BEEN ABLE TO SLOW SOME
OF THE PEOPLE THAT ARE FLYING
UP THAT HILL THAT&apos;S NOT GOING
TO BE THE CASE WHEN YOU&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT 50 FAMILIES THAT
DON&apos;T LIVE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT WE CAN&apos;T COME UP AND
ADDRESS AND SAY PLEASE BE MORE
CAREFUL AND MINDFUL WHEN YOU&apos;RE
COMING UP THAT WALKWAY.
IT&apos;S JUST NOT A GREAT AREA TO
ADD 50 CARS TWICE A DAY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
YOU CAN COME RIGHT UP THE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS.
HI MY NAME IS RESA GOTLIB.
I LIVE AT TEN FORTY THREE
WESTPORT.
I HAD AN ADDRESS ON NEWPORT
ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO WHICH AS
YOU KNOW IS A MUCH BUSIER
THOROUGHFARE ROAD AND PART
OF THE REASON THAT I DECIDED TO
BUY MY HOME INTO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IS BECAUSE I
WANTED AN AREA THAT WAS QUIETER
.
I CAN ALSO ATTEST TO THE FACT
THAT YES, THERE ARE CHILDREN IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS INTERSECTION IS EXTREMELY
BUSY.
WHAT WAS ALREADY SPOKEN ABOUT
IS A LOT OF THE OVERFLOW
TRAFFIC FOR FORSAYTH LINES
WHERE PEOPLE DON&apos;T WANT TO
ACCESS IT THROUGH SOME OF THE
NORMAL MEANS TO GET TO IT.
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD IS EXCESSIVELY
BUSY WITH PEOPLE DRIVING REALLY
QUICKLY DURING YOU KNOW, PICK
UP AND DROP OFF TIMES AND THERE
IS ONE OF THOSE LIKE REALLY
FANTASTIC.
I MEAN I GREW UP IN ANN ARBOR
SO I&apos;M VERY FAMILIAR WITH THE
LITTLE WALKWAYS THAT HAPPEN IN
NEIGHBORHOODS TO THE SCHOOLS WE
HAVE ONE OF THOSE THAT IS JUST
AROUND THE CORNER FROM THIS
INTERSECTION OF WESTPORT AND
MORNINGSIDE.
I ALSO KNOW THAT ON EITHER SIDE
OF THE PROPOSED LOCATION THE
HOMES ARE SORT OF SET ON A HILL
AND PEOPLE PULL OUT THEIR
DRIVEWAYS WITHOUT LOOKING EVEN
WHEN YOU&apos;RE ON THE SIDEWALK
WALKING LET ALONE HAVING 50
PLUS ADDITIONAL PEOPLE COMING
IN AND OUT OF THIS AREA.
IT&apos;S IT IS IT&apos;S SEEMINGLY A
GOOD IDEA TO HAVE A CHILD CARE
CENTER RIGHT LIKE WE NEED THAT
IT&apos;S ECHOED AMONG THE COMMUNITY
BEFORE THIS PROPOSED LOCATION
THERE WAS A HOME HERE FOR I
DON&apos;T IT WAS ACTUALLY THERE
JUST AS I WAS MOVING IN AND IT
WAS CLOSING AND LEAVING BUT IT
WAS A HOME WHERE THERE WAS LIKE
SEVERAL PEOPLE WHO I THINK HAD
DEVELOPMENTAL ISSUES AND
CAREGIVERS AND THAT&apos;S PART
OF THE REASON WHY THE HOUSE IS
SORT OF CHOPPED UP.
I THINK IT&apos;S SORT
OF INTERESTING THAT LIKE JUST
BEFORE THIS CONVERSATION WE HAD
ALL OF THIS TALK ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, POPULATION DENSITY
BECAUSE WHAT I THINK THAT PIECE
OF PROPERTY WOULD HAVE DONE
GREAT FOR IS LIKE A DUPLEX OR
EVEN A TRIPLEX BECAUSE IT HAS
TWO KITCHENS ALREADY AND
SOMETHING WHERE IT COULD HAVE
BEEN AN AFFORDABLE HOUSING
ISSUE OR ADDITION TO THE
COMMUNITY THAT I THINK WOULD
HAVE BEEN REALLY FANTASTIC WHEN
I SAW ON THE MARKET I WAS
ACTUALLY VERY EXCITED ABOUT
THAT AND I HAVE TO SAY LIKE I
THINK THAT THIS IS JUST SUCH A
BAD IDEA FOR THE COMMUNITY, FOR
THE TRAFFIC.
I JUST CAN&apos;T IMAGINE HOW MUCH
MORE INSANE IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
DURING TIMES WHEN PEOPLE ARE
PICKING UP AND DROPPING OFF.
I MEAN IT&apos;S ALREADY EXTREMELY
DISRUPTIVE THAT IT IS USED AS A
THOROUGHFARE ON TOP OF THAT I
DON&apos;T KNOW IF THIS IS JUST
HEARSAY BUT THE OTHER DAY I WAS
DRIVING HOME AND I SAW A LOT
OF THE TREE WORKERS THAT ARE
GOING AROUND TO SORT OF CHOP
DOWN SOME OF THE TREES TO HELP
WITH SOME OF THE POWER OUTAGES
BECAUSE WE ACTUALLY HAPPENED TO
BE ONE OF THE NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT HAS LIKE REALLY EXTREME
POWER OUTAGES WHEN THERE ARE
STORMS.
BUT I WAS TOLD THERE IS A PLAN
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THIS IS HEARSAY
OF A TRAFFIC LIGHT GOING IN AT
MILLER AND NEWPORT.
&gt;&gt; IS THIS TRUE?
POSSIBLY WE DON&apos;T KNOW IF
THAT&apos;S TRUE.
IT&apos;S GOING TO MAKE THIS
INTERSECTION NEAR OUR HOUSE
EVEN WORSE BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO AVOID PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO BE AVOIDING THE INTERSECTION
AND USING IT EVEN MORE AS A CUT
THROUGH TO GET TO SCHOOLS AND
TO THE PRESCHOOL AND IT&apos;S JUST
GOING TO CREATE A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF TRAFFIC THAT&apos;S GOING
TO BE A REALLY BIG PROBLEM AND
POSSIBLY DANGEROUS FOR A LOT
OF THE PEOPLE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OLDER AND YOUNGER.
SO THANK YOU FOR HEARING ALL
OF US.
&gt;&gt; I APPRECIATE THAT IT&apos;S LATE.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHTY.
SO REMOTE PARTICIPANTS MR.
VOLSKY, DO WE HAVE ANY.
&gt;&gt; YES.
YES.
OK, SO CALLER WITH THE LAST
THREE DIGITS SEVEN SIX THREE
PLEASE ON ME AND YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CALL DIGITS SEVEN
SIX THREE YOU COULD PLEASE ON
YOU YOU CAN ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; THERE YOU GO.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR MAKING
THE TIME FOR US AND SAYING
GOING SO LATE.
MY NAME IS MATTHEW CREW AND MY
WIFE LARISSA WITH ME WE HAVE A
TWO AND A HALF YEAR OLD BOY.
WE LIVE SIX HOUSES AWAY FROM
THE PRESIDENT AT FIFTEEN
HUNDRED HILL RIDGE BOULEVARD.
I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK THE SPEAKERS
THAT CAME BEFORE THE FIRST LADY
THAT TALKED ABOUT THAT BEING A
VERY DANGEROUS HILL.
WHAT VERY RIGHT.
OUR STREET IS CALLED HILL RED
BECAUSE WE ARE AT THE TOP
OF THE HILL IN THE WINTER
ESPECIALLY THE PLOWING HERE IS
THAT CONSISTENTLY THEY HAVE
VERY ICY, VERY BAD SNOW GOING
DOWN MORNINGSIDE THERE THAT
MAKES IT VERY EASY FOR YOUR CAR
TO SPLIT.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT THE
OTHER GENTLEMAN SAID THAT THERE
WAS NO CHILDREN I THINK MAYBE
TOWARD THAT WESTPORT SIDE THAT
HE LIVES IS POSSIBLY THE CASE.
BUT IN THE LAST THREE TO FOUR
YEARS MORNINGSIDE HILL RIDGE
BOULEVARD WINE AND BONDER HAVE
ABOUT 30 TO 40 CHILDREN UNDER
THE AGE OF ABOUT TEN.
SO I&apos;M A LITTLE BIT OLDER.
MOST OF THEM I&apos;D SAY WERE
BETWEEN TWO AND SEVEN YEARS OLD
AND AS THE LAST SPEAKER
INDICATED, MANY OF THEM RIDE
THEIR BIKES WITH KIDS SAFELY IN
THE STREET AND YOU WILL FIND
CHILDREN RUNNING BACK AND FORTH
BETWEEN BOTH SIDES OF HILLARY&apos;S
FULL OF LIFE.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, THEY LOOK BOTH
WAYS BUT THEY&apos;RE NOT USED TO A
LOT OF TRAFFIC SO THEY WOULD
HAVE TO BE A LOT OF CHANGES
THAT WERE MADE SOMETHING HAPPEN
LIKE THE FIRST LADY SAID WHERE
FROM ONE GETS HIT WE&apos;RE
REQUESTING THAT YOU DENIED IT
THE EXCEPTION BECAUSE IT WILL
ACTUALLY AFFECT THE MORNING
TRAFFIC OF THE RESIDENTS THAT
LIVE THEIR HOMES TO GO TO WORK
AND WITHOUT QUESTION THE SAFETY
OF THE YOUNG CHILDREN,
ESPECIALLY IN THE AFTERNOON
THAT LIVE HERE ON ALL THOSE
STREET.
I WON&apos;T GO INTO THE MAP BUT YOU
CANNOT SEE FOR YOURSELF THAT
THERE&apos;S THREE STREETS THAT LEAD
UP THE HILLSIDE WHICH COULD
VERY EASILY BE THE PATH THAT
THEY ARE.
IT&apos;S A HILL RIGHT HILL RIDGE
OUR STREET THAT COULD VERY
EASILY LEAD TO THE DROP OFF
POINT FOR THIS DAYCARE.
THE FIRST GENTLEMAN ALREADY
MENTIONED THAT THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD ROADS WERE NOT
PLANNED IN A WAY CONDUCIVE TO
HAVING THESE TRAFFIC PATTERNS.
&gt;&gt; FURTHERMORE, THE DAYCARE
TRIED TO TALK ABOUT THEIR
PLANNING BUT I JUST DON&apos;T THINK
THEY CAN PREDICT THE TRAFFIC
RUSH.
THEY CANNOT NECESSARILY
GUARANTEE SIBLING GROUPS ARE
GOING TO ATTEND THEIR DAYCARE
AND BE BEING WALKABLE.
THEY SUBMITTED THREE HUNDRED
FORTY SEVEN CARS WHICH THEY
ANNOUNCED IN THEIR LETTER
ATTACHMENT NINE INDIVIDUALS
ATTENDED.
ONLY TWO PARTICIPANTS EXPRESSED
INTERESTS OF THEIR CHILDREN
ATTENDING THERE.
SO THEREFORE THERE ARE PEOPLE
THAT ATTEND ARE LIKELY TO BE
BRINGING CHILDREN FROM OUTSIDE
OF THE SUBDIVISION IF IT WAS
THE OTHER WAY AROUND AND WE
WILL AND IT WAS EVERYBODY HERE
FEELING CAPACITY, THEN THEY
WOULD PROBABLY WALK THERE AND
THEY WOULDN&apos;T BE WORRIED ABOUT
ALL THE TRAFFIC.
BUT WE CAN&apos;T IMPOSE THAT ON THE
DAY CARE.
SO MOVING ON TO A FEW OTHER
POINTS THEY TALKED ABOUT
PARKING BUT WHAT ABOUT CARS,
THE ENDING SO THEY CAN SAY THAT
THERE&apos;S NOT A SET TIME THEY CAN
DROP OFF BUT IF YOU GO TO ALL
OF THESE DAYCARES, MOST OF THEM
HAVE CHILDREN THERE BECAUSE
THEY&apos;RE WORKING PARENTS AND YOU
KNOW, NINE TO FIVE.
SO YOU HAVE PEOPLE GOING THERE
BETWEEN EIGHT AND NINE AND PICK
THEM UP TO FIVE FIVE THIRTY
THEY KIDS ARE ACTUALLY PRETTY
STRICT IF YOU SHOW UP SO YOU&apos;VE
REACHED YOUR THREE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SAMURAI&apos;S.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
I BET THAT THAT THERE IS THANK
YOU.
&gt;&gt; OK SORRY THE THREE MINUTES
THAT EVERYBODY ELSE THAT SO WE
HAVE ANOTHER CALLER ON LINE
CALLER WITH THE LAST THREE WAIT
I WAS SORRY ADAM JUST SAVAGE
YOU CAN NEWTON PLEASE ADDRESS
PLANNING COMMISSION OK MY NAME
IS ADAM DISCOURAGE FOURTEEN
THIRTY FIVE I THINK IT&apos;S
ENTIRELY REASONABLE FOR
NEIGHBORHOOD CHILD CARE
FACILITY TO HAVE LIMITED
PARKING AND BE WITHIN A SINGLE
FAMILY NEIGHBORHOOD I GREW UP
ACROSS MY WORK FROM THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD GOING TO HAZILY
ELEMENTARY AND FORSAYTH MIDDLE
SCHOOL.
I WALKED TO AND FROM ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL AND MIDDLE SCHOOL AS A
CHILD AND HOPE TODAY&apos;S KIDS CAN
CONTINUE TO DO THE SAME AS
LATCHKEY KID.
THIS WOULD HAVE KEPT ME OUT
OF SOME TROUBLE IN MIDDLE
SCHOOL AND THE CHILD CARE
FACILITY IS A THIRD PLACE FOR
KIDS BEYOND HOME AND SCHOOL IS
VALUABLE FOR THE COMMUNITY IF
THERE ARE ISSUES TRAFFIC WE
SHOULD ADDRESS THE TRAFFIC
CALMING CONCERNS.
AS A KID I USED TO CUT THROUGH
FROM FORSIGHT EVERY DAY WE JUST
WALKED THOUGH IT&apos;S EXTREMELY
CONCERNING TO ME TO THAT ANSWER
USING IT AS A CAR CENTRIC
PICKUP AND DROP OFF LOCATION.
I THINK THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THE
CITY OR THE SCHOOL DISTRICT
SHOULD LOOK INTO REGARDLESS
OF THIS PROPOSAL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ONE MORE ADAM PERKINS THAT YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES PLEASE AND A
NEWTON ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
HI.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
WE CAN RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; MY NAME&apos;S ADAM BECAUSE I
LIVE THIRTEEN FIFTEEN
MORNINGSIDE DRIVE WHICH IS TWO
DOORS NORTH OF THIS PROPOSED
NEW FACILITY.
I REALLY JUST WANTED TO ECHO
WHAT OTHER PEOPLE HAVE SAID
THAT THE MAIN CONCERN ABOUT
THIS PROPOSAL IS THE HUGE
POTENTIAL INCREASE IN TRAFFIC
COMING INTO OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
FROM OUTSIDE OF IT.
&gt;&gt; FIFTY FORTY EVEN THIRTY CARS
COMING AND GOING TWICE A DAY IS
GOING TO FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE THE
NATURE OF OUR NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE CURRENTLY HAVE THE STREET
MORNINGSIDE DRIVE WHICH IS
QUITE QUIET FOR MOST OF THE DAY
AND IT&apos;S A HEALTHY STREET AND I
KNOW THAT THE COUNCIL IS IN
FAVOR OF MAINTAINING HEALTHY
STREETS.
I THINK IT&apos;S DEEPLY REGRETTABLE
THAT THE CITY STAFF SO FAR HAVE
CHOSEN NOT TO CARRY OUT A
COMPREHENSIVE TRAFFIC IMPACT
ANALYSIS ON THIS PROPOSAL AND I
THINK REALLY THE THIS PROPOSAL
SHOULD BE REJECTED UNTIL SUCH
AN ANALYSIS HAS BEEN CARRIED.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S REALLY WHAT I WANTED
TO SAY.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OK, ANOTHER CALLER WHAT THE
LAST THREE DIGITS FIVE, FIVE,
SIX YOU MAY I KNEW IN ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
THIRTY MINUTES OR LESS FOR THE
LAST THREE DIGITS FIVE FIVE SIX
YOU KNOW YES WE CAN HEAR YOU GO
AHEAD.
I WANT TO MY NAME IS LARRY.
I LIVE ON HENRY FROM THE THE
DAYCARE AND I WANT TO SUPPORT
THE PREVIOUS SPEAKERS AGAIN
LIKE THEM I GUESS THE BAKER
BEING SET UP IN NEIGHBORHOODS I
I ALSO HEARD SOME OF VIOLATIONS
THAT THEY HAVE IN THEIR
PATRICIA LOCATION.
SO I&apos;M CONCERNED ABOUT SAFETY
BECAUSE IT SAYS THAT THE
REGULATIONS THAT I HAVE TO LARA
SAY THAT SEVEN OUT OF EIGHT
CHILD CARE STAFF MEMBERS DID
NOT COMPLETE THEIR HEALTH AND
SAFETY TRAINING AND THEN THEY
HAD ANOTHER ONE WHERE PUT FOUR
OUT OF 18 PERSON MEMBERS WHO
NOT HAVE COMPLETE FINGERPRINT
RESULTS TO DETERMINE
ELIGIBILITY.
THEY DIDN&apos;T COMPLETE THEIR
FINANCIAL OF NATO&apos;S REAL.
THEY ALSO WERE CITED AGAIN FOR
NOT IMPROVING THE HEALTH AND
SAFETY TRAINING.
SO THE LICENSEE ALSO DID NOT
HAVE A COMPLETE PHYSICAL SIGNS
OF CONCERN.
BUT IF THEY CANNOT KEEP UP WITH
THE CURRENT LOCATION, HOW ARE
THEY GOING TO TRANSFER TO TO
THIS NEW ONE?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT I WANT TO TALK
ABOUT.
THANK YOU ALSO GO AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN CONTINUE.
YOU STILL HAVE TIME FOR THEN
OTHER CONCERN THAT IS GOING TO
BE A LOT OF TRAFFIC ON THE
FIELD WHERE THERE IS A LOT
OF CHILDREN RUNNING ON THEIR
BIKES AND EVERYTHING.
I THINK WHERE PEOPLE WANT TO
COME BACK MAYBE THEY WILL JUST
GO AROUND AND PICK THE CUL DE
SAC THAT RISK LIKE THE CHILDREN
AND THE PEOPLE WHO GO OUT FOR A
WALK NOT JUST THE YOUNG
CHILDREN OF THE ELDERLY IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
SO THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ALSO I WANTED TO SAY NICE OK,
THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS RAISED
AT THIS TIME.
&gt;&gt; OK ALREADY SO I HAVE TO READ
HAD A HAND POP ONE MORE OK YOU
SAID ONE POP UP OK CHOLERA THE
LAST THREE DIGITS EIGHT TO
EIGHT YOU MAY AND ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES OR LESS YOU KNOW UM MY
NAME KATHY JACKSON AND I LIVE
ON ORKNEY WHICH IS IN WARD ONE
.
THIS IS NOT MY NEIGHBORHOOD SO
I I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY SKIN IN THIS
GAME BUT I WOULD LIKE TO URGE
YOU TO LISTEN TO THE PEOPLE WHO
LIVE IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
PEOPLE MOVE TO A NEIGHBORHOOD
LIKE THAT.
ONE WOMAN SAID QUIET LIKE TO
HAVE IT AND THEN SOMEONE WANTS
TO COME IN AND CHANGE THE
CHARACTER OF IT.
AND I THINK THAT THAT TRAFFIC
IS GOING TO BE A NIGHTMARE.
I&apos;M GLAD I DON&apos;T LIVE THERE.
THEY DON&apos;T HAVE TO DEAL WITH
IT.
BUT I JUST I REALLY HOPE THAT
YOU&apos;LL TAKE STRONG
CONSIDERATION OF WHAT THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD ARE CONCERNED
ABOUT AND I HOPE THAT YOU DON&apos;T
APPROVE IT BECAUSE IT SOUNDS
LIKE THEY&apos;RE NOT IN FAVOR OF IT
.
AND AS I SAID, AS A PERSON WHO
HAS NO SKIN IN THIS GAME, IT&apos;S
NOT AFFECTING ME DIRECTLY.
BUT I EMPATHIZE WITH THE
NEIGHBORS AND SO I HOPE YOU&apos;LL
LISTEN TO THEM.
THANK YOU.
OK, UM, ONE MORE CALLER WITH
THE THE LAST THREE NUMBERS FIVE
NINE FIVE MILLION MUTE AND
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
BROKEN.
&gt;&gt; WE CAN HEAR YOU CRESSMAN WE
LIVE IN TREDWELL, ONE OF THE
NEIGHBORING NEIGHBORHOOD
TOGETHER AND WE HAVE OTHER
FAMILIES WHO ARE STRONGLY
CONSIDERING SENDING OUR
CHILDREN TO SPLIT I THINK QUITE
DIFFICULT FOR US IN THE LAST
YEAR ESPECIALLY WITH YEARS
LONGER THAN A YEAR LONG WAIT
TIMES WITH MULTIPLE DAYCARE&apos;S
AND ESPECIALLY WORKING PARENTS
INCREDIBLY CHALLENGING FOR
INDIVIDUALS OURSELVES TO FIND A
TO SAY BAKER WE HAVE BEEN
CONSIDERING THIS A BIT BECAUSE
THEY HAVE AN ESTABLISHED
FACILITY ALREADY WITH THE
NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS AND WE TO
HAVE WORKING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE ARE ONE OF THE FAMILIES
WHERE WE DO PLAN ON WALKING
OVER TO THIS SO THAT WE HAVE NO
CHILDREN.
&gt;&gt; SO IT IS ONE OF THE SIBLING
FAMILIES WHO PLAN ON BRINGING
THEM OVER.
I DO RECOGNIZE SOME OF THE
CONCERNS THAT THE OTHER
RESIDENTS ARE BRINGING UP OVER
HERE BUT I STRONGLY HOPE THE
COMMISSION OVER HERE CONSIDERS
THE PROPOSAL BECAUSE WHILE WE
WEREN&apos;T ABLE TO ATTEND THE
PUBLIC MEETING, WE STILL HAVE
BEEN IN TOUCH WITH THE TEAM
OVER THERE AND HOPEFULLY THEY
ABLE TO OPEN AND BE ABLE THE
CHILDREN IN THE BAKERS TO THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU.
OK, WE HAVE ONE MORE CALLER
CALLER WITH THE LAST THREE
DIGITS SIX SIX EIGHT YOU CAN
YOU CAN ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; HI, MY NAME&apos;S ERIC
HELVERSON.
I LIVE AT FIFTEEN 005 HILL
RIDGE BOULEVARD.
I JUST GOT TO BRING UP ALL THE
POINTS IN OPPOSITION THAT HAVE
ALREADY BEEN EXPRESSED.
I JUST WANTED TO VOICE MY
SUPPORT FOR THE OPPOSITION TO
TO THE DAY CARE.
WE DO HAVE A VERY QUIET
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE ARE A I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY
CHILDREN OF MY OWN.
WE DO HAVE PLENTY OF YOUNG
CHILDREN AROUND IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD PLAYING IN OUR
STREETS.
IT&apos;S REALLY A IT&apos;S REALLY A
GREAT HEALTHY YOUNG ENVIRONMENT
TO HAVE WATCHED THE
NEIGHBORHOOD TURN OVER.
WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE LIVED HERE 20 PLUS
YEARS AND HAVE SEEN IT SEEN A
CHANGE AND IT IT&apos;S REALLY NICE
THAT THE YOUNG FAMILIES HERE
CAN LET THEIR KIDS PLAY AND
PLAY FREELY WITHOUT HAVING TO
WORRY ABOUT ALL THE EXTRA
TRAFFIC THAT BUT THE DAYCARE
GENERALLY.
SO I HOPE THAT ALL THE COMMENTS
IN OPPOSITION
RING TRUE AND
THAT YOU THE COMMISSION VOTED
THIS DOWN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, ANOTHER CALLER WITH THE
LAST THREE DIGITS SEVEN SIX
ZERO IF YOU MAY I NEED YOUR
PHONE.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
HELLO.
CAN ROOM YES.
&gt;&gt; CAN.
HELLO MY NAME IS FRANCES MILLS.
I LIVE AT YOUR PLACE WHO GREW
UP WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE
OF DAY CARE.
I LOVE THAT I&apos;VE LIVED THROUGH
DIFFERENT ADDRESSES THAT ARE
HERE THAT WERE WITHIN WALKING
DISTANCE OF DAYCARE NEVER ONCE
BOTHERED ME TRAFFIC ISSUES.
IN FACT I WOULD POINT TO LITTLE
PRESCHOOL ON EIGHTH STREET AS
BEING A GREAT PUBLIC SIMILAR
LOCATION TO THIS WORSE COUNTRY
RISK AND NOTHING BUT A VERY
QUIET PLEASANT PLACE.
GRANDMA ALSO HAD TWO CHILDREN I
WAS TAKING TO DAYCARE WITHIN
WALKING DISTANCE AND IF I IT&apos;S
TOUGH TO BELIEVE IT OR NOT YOU
SHOULD TRY FIRST.
BUT I THINK DAYCARE CENTERS AND
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS IS
NOTHING SHORT OF NASHVILLE
LOCATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OK, THAT IS THE LAST I SEE NO
OTHER HANDS RAISED ONLINE.
&gt;&gt; OK I WILL READ THE MOTION
WHICH YOU WILL HAVE TO BEAR
WITH ME IS QUITE LONG OK THIS
IS THE UNIVERSITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AFTER HEARING ALL
INTERESTED PERSONS IN REVIEWING
ALL RELEVANT INFORMATION
INCLUDING AN ACCOMPANYING SITE
PLAN FINDS A PETITION
SUBSTANTIALLY MEETS THE
STANDARDS IN CHAPTER 55 UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE SECTION FIVE
POINT TO NINE POINT FIVE POINT
D SPECIAL EXCEPT SPECIAL
EXCEPTIONS AND SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE SIX POINT TWO POINT B
CHILD CARE CENTER AND THEREFORE
APPROVES CHILD&apos;S PLACE LLC
SPECIAL EXEMPTION USED FOR
CHILD CARE CENTER AT THIRTEEN
OR MORE NATIVE DRIVE.
THIS APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS ONE THE
PROPOSED USE WILL BE CONSISTENT
WITH R1 SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT WHICH PROVIDES FOR
RESIDENTIAL USE INCLUDING
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS FOR
RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY AND CHILD
CARE CENTERS NEVER TO THE
PROPOSED USE WILL NOT ADVERSELY
IMPACT TRAFFIC, PEDESTRIANS,
BICYCLISTS, CIRCULATION OR ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON THAT
LOCATION, MORNINGSIDE DRIVE
PROVIDES ACCESS TO THE SITE IN
THE PROPOSED USES CONSISTENT
WITH THE EXISTING AND OTHER
SURROUNDING USES TRAFFIC TO
IMPACT NUMBER THREE.
THE SUBJECT SITE MEETS THE
SPECIFIC STANDARD FOR AT 7500
SQUARE FEET OF FLAT AREA AN
EXISTING CONDITIONS TOGETHER
WITH A VARIANCE FOR OFF STREET
PARKING GRANTED BY THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS MEETS THE
STANDARDS FOR STREET PARKING
AND ON STREET DROP OFF AND PICK
UP SPACES NO FOR A SITE PLAN
DOCUMENTING THE EXISTING AND
PROPOSED CONDITIONS.
THE SITE HAS BEEN SUBMITTED AS
PART OF THIS APPLICATION.
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USER
APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS.
THE CHILD CARE IS PROVIDED FOR
NO MORE THAN FORTY CHILDREN AND
THAT THE ANERA PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES SITE PLAN
WHICH DEMONSTRATES COMPLIANCE
WITH THE APPLICABLE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION NEW STANDARDS AS NO
DEVELOPMENT WHICH WOULD
OTHERWISE REQUIRE SITE PLAN
APPROVAL HAS BEEN PROPOSED.
&gt;&gt; OK APPROVED BY COMMISSIONER
DIS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION OF THE
PROPOSED MOTION COMMISSIONER
MILLS I.
I FIRST OF ALL WANT TO THANK
FOLKS FOR LOOKING OUT FOR
WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING IN YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND FOR
PARTICIPATING.
IT&apos;S REALLY, REALLY GREAT TO
FOR YOU TO BRING TO US THE
ISSUES THAT ARE GOING ON IN
YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD TO ONE OF THE
YOU KNOW, ALSO FOLKS THAT ARE
PARTICIPATING ON WHO CALLED IN
LIKE WHETHER IT&apos;S THIS PROPOSAL
OR FOR SOMETHING ELSE LIKE IT
LETS US KNOW WHERE THERE ARE
ALREADY PROBLEMS.
SO THE FIRST QUESTION THAT I
AND I&apos;LL JUST SAY I THE MY KIDS
HAVE BEEN IN THREE DIFFERENT
CHILD CARE FACILITIES.
TWO OF THEM HAD ONLY ONE OFF
STREET PARKING SPOTS.
ONE OF THEM WAS A LATE WELL
USED TO BE AND IS NOW IT&apos;S L.A.
DOWNTOWN.
THEY&apos;RE LICENSED FOR ONE
HUNDRED AND THREE PEOPLE WITH
ONE OFF STREETS PARKING SPOT.
&gt;&gt; SO WE I MEAN THIS WE
EVERYONE WAS WALKING AND BIKING
THERE KIDS THERE.
&gt;&gt; THE OTHER PLACE WAS LITTLE
BLUE PRESCHOOL LIKE SO THIS
IDEA OF KIND OF GOING TO PLACES
IN NEIGHBORHOODS AROUND OR LIKE
GETTING THERE WHERE THERE IS
WHERE YOU CAN&apos;T EXPECT TO HAVE
A PARKING SPOT AS A PARENT
DROPPING OFF LIKE A I MY
EXPERIENCE HAS BEEN NOT TO SHOW
UP NECESSARILY IN A CAR AND I
AND MANY OF MY KIDS HAD FRIENDS
IN THIS PARTICULAR
NEIGHBORHOOD, BOTH OF THOSE
PLACES.
RIGHT.
SO LIKE I WOULD HOPE THAT, YOU
KNOW, I IF I LIVED IN THIS
PARTICULAR NEIGHBORHOOD I WOULD
LOOK FORWARD TO HAVING ANOTHER
OPTION BECAUSE WE WERE ALSO ON
WAITING LISTS FOREVER RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T HAVE ENOUGH
SPOTS OVERALL IN THE CITY ALSO
.
I MEAN MAYBE MAYBE THIS IS ME
AS A PARENT WHEN I AM IN A CAR
LIKE I AM WATCHING OUT FOR THE
KID THAT&apos;S GOING TO ZOOM IN AND
OUT SO THE FACT THAT THERE ARE
KIDS ON THE STREET IF ANY LIKE
I WOULD I DON&apos;T KNOW AS A
PARENT I THINK THAT AND OTHER
PARENTS COMING DON&apos;T WANT THEIR
KIDS TO BE HIT BY THE CARS
EITHER.
SO I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
ANOTHER KIND OF I DON&apos;T KNOW
MAYBE THAT&apos;S JUST MY
OBSERVATION.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I&apos;M
I HAVE BEEN THINKING THROUGH IT
DOES SOUND LIKE THOUGH THERE
NEEDS TO BE OPTIONS FOR TRAFFIC
CALMING AND FOR KIDS AT PLAY
SIGNS REGARDLESS OF WHAT
HAPPENS.
SO I&apos;M CURIOUS FROM A STASS
PERSPECTIVE HOW YOU GO ABOUT
DOING THAT.
HOW DO YOU GET A SPEED BUMPS?
HOW DO YOU GET THE HOW DO YOU
GET THE SIGNS TO SAY WATCH OUT
FOR THE KIDS PLAYING?
&gt;&gt; DO DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEAS,
MR. CHANG?
&gt;&gt; WELL, I DID HAVE A BRIEF
DISCUSSION WITH THE CITY&apos;S
TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
UNFORTUNATELY WE DIDN&apos;T TALK
ABOUT SCIENCE OR OR SPEED
HUMPS.
IT IS A DISCUSSION I COULD HAVE
WITH HIM REGARDING SOME TYPE
OF PETITION POSSIBLY WITH THE
NEIGHBOR IS IT WOULD WANT
SOMETHING LIKE THAT INSTALLED
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
WHAT WE DID DISCUSS THOUGH WAS
THAT THIS THIS PROJECT IT
DIDN&apos;T MEET THE THRESHOLD TO
ACTUALLY HAVE A TRAFFIC IMPACT
ANALYSIS AND THE REASON IS IT
TAKES FIFTY PEAK HOUR TRIPS.
PEAK HOUR TRIPS ARE TYPICALLY
EIGHT IN THE MORNING FIVE AND
BECAUSE OF THOSE FIFTY TRIPS
THAT THIS ONE HAS FORTY KIDS
POSSIBLY UP TO TEN CAREGIVERS.
BUT THE EXPECTATION IS THAT
THEY&apos;LL BE THE FAMILIES THAT
BRING MULTIPLE KIDS THAT WOULD
REDUCE THAT FIFTY COUNT AND IT
ALSO DETERMINES THAT WHAT WALK
AND BIKE.
&gt;&gt; SO AS FAR AS THE
CONVERSATION WE HAD WITH THE
TRAFFIC HE WAS SUPPORTIVE OF ,
YOU KNOW, THE THE NUMBER
OF KIDS IN THE LOCATION IN A
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT I WOULD HAVE TO DISCUSS
FURTHER WITH SIGNS OF SPEED
HUMPS OR ADDITIONAL TRAFFIC
CALMING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
BECAUSE THAT SEEMS LIKE ONE WAY
OR THE OTHER SOMETHING THAT
WOULD BE REALLY HELPFUL IN THIS
PARTICULAR PLACE, PARTICULARLY
IF PEOPLE ARE USING ARE
DROPPING OFF KIDS AT THE CUT
THROUGH TO TO THE MIDDLE SCHOOL
AND AND ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
THEY&apos;RE SO SO THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE
THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE QUESTIONS AND
AND I WAS GOING TO ASK ABOUT
THE TRAFFIC STUDY JUST ANOTHER
POINT TO ONE OF THE SPEAKERS
BROUGHT UP THE IDEA ALTERNATE
USES OF THIS PROPERTY LIKE IS
THIS A GOOD PLACE FOR DUPLEX?
AND SADLY I MEAN THIS IS ZONED
SO THAT A DUPLEX IS NOT ALLOWED
THERE SO SO AND THERE&apos;S NO
SPECIAL EXCEPTION THAT WOULD
ALLOW FOR FOR A DUPLEX THERE
WITHOUT REASON WITHOUT
COMPLETELY REZONING.
SO THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE REASONS
THAT THAT&apos;S NOT THAT&apos;S NOT AN
OPTION EVEN IF IT DOES HAVE TWO
KITCHENS, THERE&apos;S ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNITS BUT THAT WOULD
REQUIRE SOME ADDITIONAL THINGS.
SO THAT&apos;S JUST JUST FOR
INFORMATION.
THAT&apos;S WHY WE DON&apos;T SEE
DUPLEXES IN THAT PARTICULAR
NEIGHBORHOOD IS BECAUSE OF THE
THE THE ZONING UNDERLYING
CLASSIFICATION OF THE ZONING
COMMISSIONER ISH.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO FOLLOW UP ON THE
DISCUSSION THAT YOU JUST
STARTED, COMMISSIONER MILLS AND
I AGREE THAT IT IS REALLY
USEFUL TO HEAR FROM THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BECAUSE IT LETS US
KNOW WHERE THERE ARE ALREADY
PROBLEMS AND I UNDERSTAND THAT
SPEED BUMPS WORK BY BY NEIGHBOR
PETITION AND THAT WE ARE ALSO
BACK LOGGED WITH THOSE
PETITIONS.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S A LONG PROCESS &gt;&gt;
BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO HAVE A
NUMBER OF MEETINGS AND THIS
DOES THIS THIS GEOGRAPHIC
CONFIGURATION THERE THEY ARE
EXPLAINING TO US THAT THERE IS
A HILL AND THAT OF COURSE AS WE
KNOW VISIBILITY IS REDUCED ON
THE HILL AND THEY&apos;RE EXPLAINING
TO US THAT PEOPLE SPEED THROUGH
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD BECAUSE THEY
USE IT AS A DROP OFF FOR
SCHOOLS.
AND WE KNOW THAT THIS IS A
PROBLEM BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T HAVE
THE BUS SERVICE THAT WE NEED
AND SO PARENTS ARE DRIVING
THEIR KIDS TO SCHOOL IN THE
MORNING.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE THE RIGHT.
SO IN I LIVE NEAR AND THAT&apos;S
NOT THE WAY IT WORKS.
I LIVE NEAR A SCHOOL AND WE&apos;VE
HAD TO MAKE A LOT
OF ADJUSTMENTS IN THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD TO CONTROL THE
DRIVING.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, THERE
HAD TO BE NO
PARKING AND NO STANDING AND ALL
KINDS OF THINGS TO CONTROL THE
INFORMAL DROPOFFS THAT PARENTS
ARE DOING.
&gt;&gt; SO IT SOUNDS TO ME LIKE
THERE&apos;S THERE ARE SOME ISSUES
HERE THAT WERE THAT ARE NOT
THAT ARE BEING EXACERBATED BY
THIS PROJECT AND IT AREN&apos;T EASY
FOR US TO CAPTURE WITH OUR
USUAL APPROACHES.
AND SO KIDS A PLACE LIKE A
SIGNE&apos;S SOUND LIKE A GOOD IDEA
BUT IT IT DOES SOUND LIKE WE
NEED TO TAKE A LOOK AT HOW
PARENTS ARE USING THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD TO DROP THEIR KIDS
OFF AT THE PASS THROUGH.
&gt;&gt; AND I THOUGHT IT WAS A GOOD
QUESTION WHETHER THERE IS A
PLAN FOR A TRAFFIC LIGHT AT
MILLER AND NEWPORT I HAVE NO
IDEA.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T KEEP TRACK OF ALL
THE TRAFFIC LIGHTS WE&apos;RE
PUTTING IN BUT WE DO WE DO
UNDERSTAND THAT THINGS LIKE
THAT DO EXACERBATE CUT THROUGH
TRAFFIC.
&gt;&gt; SO I DO NOT THINK THAT
THERE&apos;S A PROBLEM WITH THIS
PROPOSAL BUT I THINK THERE&apos;S AN
EXISTING SITUATION THAT THIS
FOR WHICH THIS PROPOSAL CREATES
A TIPPING POINT AND WE NEED TO
ADDRESS THE INFRASTRUCTURE HERE
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE MAINTAIN A
SAFE ENVIRONMENT FOR PEOPLE TO
WALK AND PLAY.
&gt;&gt; BUT THOSE ARE NOT REASONS TO
DENY THE SPECIAL EXEMPTION.
THESE ARE REASONS THAT WE MIGHT
NEED TO DO A LITTLE THINKING
OUTSIDE THE BOX TO CAPTURE WHAT
SOUNDS TO ME LIKE REAL ISSUES
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD WITH
TRAFFIC RIGHT NOW SAUVé SO I
HEAR ONE THING WHICH IS ABOUT
THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY AND
TRAFFIC.
OUR ROLE IS TO IMPROVE WHEN
PRIVATE LAND USE RIGHT.
AND SO THERE&apos;S KIND OF TWO
DISCUSSIONS BEING HAD US
HEARING ABOUT INFRASTRUCTURE
ISSUES AND WHAT CAN EXACERBATE
IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY AND
WHAT OUR ROLE IS TO UNDERSTAND
THE PRIVATE LAND USE IN THE
CITY AND YOU KNOW, IN THIS CASE
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS WITHIN A
NEIGHBORHOOD.
ONE OF THE THINGS THINKING
ABOUT THE TRAFFIC LIMITS AND
THINGS OUR CURRENT ORDINANCE
ESPECIALLY WITH COVID YOU KNOW
,WE REALLY LOOKED AT HOME
OCCUPATION AND THE AMOUNT
OF TRAFFIC AND TRIPS ANY SINGLE
HOME FOR PEOPLE WORKING THERE
COULD HAVE BEEN ANY SINGLE
FAMILY HOME COULD HAVE UP TO
TWENTY FOUR VISITS PER DAY.
&gt;&gt; SO IF WE LOOK AT THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD, EVERY SINGLE ONE
OF THESE HOMES COULD HAVE
TWENTY FOUR VISITS JUST BY
BEING AT HOME THERAPIST OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND SO WHEN
WE THINK ABOUT KIND OF THAT
RATIO THAT WE&apos;RE UP TO FIFTY
VISITS IF EVERYBODY IS DRIVING
AND THINGS YES IT&apos;S A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION INSTEAD OF YOU KNOW,
BY RIGHT LIKE HOME OCCUPATION.
&gt;&gt; BUT I THINK WHEN WE THINK
ABOUT THESE THINGS PAIRED IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD WITH SCHOOLS AND I
I SEE AND I WAS GUILTY
SOMETIMES OF DRIVING MY KID
OVER TO WHITE AT TIMES WHEN IT
WAS JUST A LITTLE BIT MORE
CONVENIENT.
&gt;&gt; BUT I SHOULD HAVE WALKED AND
I DID WALK TOO.
AND SO IT&apos;S JUST SOMETIMES THAT
THRESHOLD OF CONVENIENCE BUT
THE MORE THE MORE YOU BUILD UP
DAILY HABITS YOU KNOW, IF I&apos;M
TALKING TO KIDS OFF INSTEAD
OF ONE AND COMING BACK AND
WORKING MORE AT HOME AND THINGS
LIKE THAT, THAT&apos;S HOW WE BUILD
WALKABLE COMMUNITIES, THESE
INCREMENTAL PIECES AND IT GOES
BACK TO PLAN INCREMENTAL THINGS
LIKE THIS IMPROVE HAVING THINGS
IN EACH OF OUR NEIGHBORHOODS,
AMENITIES IN EACH OF OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
&gt;&gt; BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE WE HAVE
SOME TRAFFIC ISSUES AND THE WAY
THAT THE COMMUNITY HAS
ORGANIZED AROUND THIS PROJECT
TO HIGHLIGHT THE ISSUE IT AND
ORGANIZE TO GET THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT IS ACTUALLY
GOING TO SOLVE THE THE TRAFFIC
THAT THIS PROJECT AND OUR ROLE
IS NOT HERE AND BUILT TO DO
ANYBODY ELSE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER EVANS, WE DON&apos;T
HAVE A LOT NEW TO ADD TO THE
DISCUSSION, BUT I WANTED TO I
THINK BEGIN BY JUST
UNDERSCORING THE GRATITUDE AND
THE APPRECIATION FOR ALL THE
COMMENTS WE&apos;VE HEARD TONIGHT
FOR AND AGAINST.
AND WE ALSO RECEIVED A LOT
OF EMAILS ABOUT THIS ISSUE AS
WELL.
AND SO WE DID WE DO RECEIVE IT
AND WE READ THOSE CAREFULLY.
I THINK THAT IN SOME WAYS WHAT
I HEARD WAS A KIND OF CONFUSING
DEPICTION OF WHAT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD IS LIKE NOW I
ACTUALLY HAVE VERY GOOD FRIENDS
WHO LIVE ON SITES.
I&apos;VE BEEN THERE QUITE A BIT BUT
ON THE ONE HAND IT&apos;S LIKE WE&apos;RE
BEING TOLD THAT IT&apos;S THIS PLACE
WHERE KIDS CAN RIDE THEIR BIKES
AND PLAY IN THE STREET.
WE&apos;RE ALSO BEING TOLD THAT
PEOPLE DRIVE LIKE CRAZY THROUGH
THERE AND FLY AROUND THE
CORNER.
SO IT&apos;S LIKE A I&apos;M NOT QUITE
SURE IF THE DAYCARE CENTER IS,
YOU KNOW, DISTURBING THE PEACE
OR JUST CONTRIBUTING TO THE
MAYHEM AND SO IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
DIFFICULT.
BUT WHAT I DO THINK IS THAT
WHILE I LOVE THE IDEA OF KIDS
PLAYING IN THE STREET AND I
LIVE IN A PLACE WHERE MY KIDS
COULD PLAY IN THE STREET THAT
ISN&apos;T ACTUALLY LIKE WHAT THE
STREETS ARE MEANT FOR.
LIKE IT ISN&apos;T THE LAND USE
DESIGNATION.
RIGHT.
AND SO I THINK IT SOUNDS LIKE
THERE IS A TRAFFIC PROBLEM HERE
PEOPLE SPEEDING, PEOPLE NOT
OBEYING STOP SIGNS MAYBE
NEEDING TO BE STOPPED SIGNS.
SO I AGREE WITH ALL THE
COMMENTS ABOUT THAT.
I THINK IT&apos;S REALLY IMPORTANT
TO CURB THAT YOU&apos;RE SAYING NO
TO ME BUT PEOPLE ARE THAT&apos;S
WHAT I HEARD.
THEY WERE WORRIED ABOUT PEOPLE
CUTTING THROUGH THAT.
THERE&apos;S ALREADY A LOT
OF TRAFFIC PEOPLE DROPPING OFF
AT FORSAYTH SO SO BUT I ALSO
WHAT I THINK I&apos;M HEARING AND
WHAT I WHAT I RECEIVED WHAT I
HEARD THROUGH THE EMAIL
COMMUNICATION IS I DON&apos;T THINK
THAT IT DOESN&apos;T SOUND LIKE
THERE&apos;S FUNDAMENTAL OPPOSITION
TO THE IDEA OF A DAYCARE IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
I THINK PEOPLE ARE WORRIED
ABOUT THE NUMBER OF CHILDREN
AND THE NUMBER OF STAFF AND SO
I THINK IN THE COMMUNITY
MEETING THE NUMBER WAS GIVEN AS
A RANGE BETWEEN 20 AND 30 AND
IN THE MOTION IT&apos;S CAPPED AT
40.
AND SO I WAS WONDERING IF WE
COULD HEAR FROM THE PETITIONER
WHETHER THEY WOULD BE OPEN TO A
LOWER CAP AND WHETHER YOU SAID
YOU EXPECTED IT TO BE LESS THAN
40 AND THAT YOU EXPECTED THE
CAREGIVING STAFF TO BE LESS
THAN TEN.
AND I JUST WANTED TO HEAR A
LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT WHAT YOU
THOUGHT THE RANGE WOULD BE AND
WHAT YOU WOULD BE AMENABLE TO.
YOU NEED TO UNMUTED.
MR. GEY, PLEASE UNMUTED
.
OK, NOW YOU CAN NOW WE CAN HEAR
YOU.
&gt;&gt; I I WAS BASICALLY FOR YOUR
HOST UNMUTED SORRY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
WOULD WE BE AMENABLE TO A LOWER
CAP THAN FORTY THIRTY RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I THINK I THINK WE
WOULD I&apos;M LOOKING AT MY
PARTNERS AND I, I THINK WE
WOULD WE WOULD BE AMENABLE TO
THAT.
&gt;&gt; AS I SAY THE FORTY WAS KIND
OF A JUST A WORKING ESTIMATE.
WE WE GET THE NUMBER OF THE
ACTUAL LICENSE NUMBER IT COMES
TO US FROM LICENSING AND
REGULATORY AFFAIRS.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT SOMETHING THAT WE
CAN SET FOR OURSELVES SO AND
BUT UNTIL WE GET THE ZONING
APPROVAL WE CAN&apos;T EVEN ASK THEM
WHAT THE NUMBER WOULD BE.
SO IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT OF A
GUESSING GAME SO YEAH, I THINK
THE ANSWER TO YOUR QUESTION IS
YES, WE WOULD BE COMMUTABLE TO
THIRTY
SORRY.
HAVING TROUBLE TURNING ON MY
MICROPHONE.
I FEEL LIKE THAT THAT WOULD BE
A REASONABLE COMPROMISE SO I
WOULD IF I&apos;M TRYING TO READ THE
ROOM HERE ABOUT WHETHER THERE&apos;S
ANY APPETITE FOR THAT MAKING
THAT OR WHAT OR WHETHER YOU
WANT MORE DISCUSSION BEFORE I
MAKE THAT MOTION, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, WHAT WOULD THE
STAFF KNOW THE STAFF?
&gt;&gt; NO, I&apos;M GUESSING WOULD DENHA
JUST DOWN AS WELL IF WE HAVE
DID IT.
THIRTY CHILDREN AND I&apos;M NOT
SURE WHAT THAT STAFF MEMBER
WOULD BE.
I THINK YOU WERE DOING A PHOTO
RATIO
WHICH IS THE WORST CASE
SCENARIO IN TERMS OF INFANTS,
RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
YES.
THAT WOULD THAT WOULD BE IN
TERMS OF INFANTS FOUR TO ONE AN
INFANT AS DEFINED BY THE STATE
IS ANY CHILD LESS THAN 30
MONTHS OF THAT&apos;S TWO AND A HALF
WHICH IS IN MY OPINION HARDLY
AN INFANT BUT YEAH SO THIRTY
DIVIDED BY FOUR THAT WOULD BE
SEVEN POSSIBLY EIGHT STAFF
COMMISSIONER.
SO HAVING RUN THE DAYCARE
CENTER FOR SEVERAL YEARS I CAN
APPRECIATE ALL OF THE LICENSING
CONCERNS AND HAVING SPENT A LOT
OF TIME WITH LICENSING TO
COMPLY THINGS CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; SO THE ONLY CONCERN I WOULD
HAVE ABOUT THE CAP IS JUST WHAT
DOES THAT DO DOWNSTREAM IF THEY
WANT IT TO EXPAND WITHIN THEIR
SITE, THEIR FOOTPRINT, WOULD
THAT MEAN THEY&apos;D HAVE TO COME
BACK TO US TO DO THAT AGAIN?
AND IF I UNDERSTAND CORRECTLY,
YOU ALSO HAD SOME CONCERNS
THROUGH THIS PROCESS BECAUSE I
THINK I HEARD YOU COMMENT AT
CITY COUNCIL SOME MONTHS AGO
WHEN YOU WERE TRYING TO GET
YOUR APPROVALS AND YOUR
LICENSING AND THAT
CREATED SUBSTANTIAL COST TO YOU
BECAUSE YOU HAD TO ACQUIRE THE
PROPERTY AND THEN YOU WEREN&apos;T
SURE HOW THINGS WERE GOING TO
GO.
SO I JUST DON&apos;T KNOW HOW WOULD
IT IT&apos;S NOT I DON&apos;T BASED ON
LICENSING IT&apos;S NOT THEY&apos;RE NOT
GOING TO GET 50.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S JUST NO WAY FOR THEM
TO GET FIFTY KIDS IN THAT
FOOTPRINT 40 IT&apos;S PROBABLY NO
WAY FOR THEM TO GET 40 IN THERE
BECAUSE KIDS HAVE IT&apos;S ABOUT
MOBILITY IF THEY&apos;RE DOING
INFANTS IT&apos;S THE CRIBS.
THE THE SPACING OF THE CRIBS
HAVE TO BE IN A CERTAIN
WAY FOR
FIRE THINGS.
I MEAN I WOULD BE SURPRISED
HE&apos;S THE BUSINESS OWNER.
YOU SHOULD SPEAK UP BECAUSE
THIS IS WHERE WE&apos;RE TRYING TO
GO FOR YOU.
BUT I WOULD BE SURPRISED IF
THERE ARE OVER TWENTY FIVE IN
THAT IN THAT SQUARE FOOTAGE
JUST BECAUSE THEY HAVE TO HAVE
SO MUCH SPACE FOR THOSE KIDS TO
MOVE AROUND AND AND RIGHT NOW
HE&apos;S JUST DOING RAW NUMBERS BUT
ONCE THEY PUT THINGS IN THE
ROOM THAT CHANGES THE
CONFIGURATION OF THE ROOM AND
THEN IT CHANGES THE LICENSING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THAT ROOM AND
THEN THAT&apos;S ALL BASED ON JUST A
ROSS SQUARE FOOTAGE AND THERE&apos;S
ALREADY WALLS IN THERE AND
HALLWAYS AND THOSE THINGS ARE
GOING TO EAT UP THEIR SQUARE
FOOTAGE.
SO I WOULD BE SURPRISED IF THEY
HAD MORE THAN TWENTY FIVE KIDS.
I WOULD BE SURPRISED IF THOSE
TWENTY FIVE KIDS GENERATED MORE
THAN TWELVE CARS JUST LIKE 12
TO 15 CARS IN YOUR TIME AND I
AND I HEAR YOU LIKE WE WE HAVE
A PARKING LOT AND WE SHARE OUR
PARKING LOT WITH FOUR OTHER
BUSINESSES AND WE HAD TO
RESERVE THE FRONT OF THE
PARKING LOT SO THAT PARENTS
COULD COME IN AND DO DROP OFF
AND PICKUP.
SO THESE ARE REAL CONCERNS.
I HAVE THREE KIDS THAT ARE
YOUNG BUT I LIVE ON A MAJOR
ROAD IN ANN ARBOR SO MY KIDS
CAN&apos;T PLAY ON THAT ROLE NOW WE
HAVE A TRAFFIC ISLAND AND ALL
MY TRAFFIC ISLAND THEY GO DOWN
ABOUT FORTY NINE TRAFFIC ISLAND
THEY GO DOWN FORTY FIVE MILES
PER HOUR WHICH IS A RISK FOR MY
OWN KIDS.
&gt;&gt; SO I AM ESPECIALLY
SYMPATHETIC TO THE CONCERNS
THAT YOU HAVE AND I I&apos;M HAPPY
TO CONTINUE TO RAISE THOSE
ISSUES WITH TRAFFIC AROUND THE
CONCERNS AND IT SOUNDS LIKE
THIS DEVELOPMENT IS AT TI SO I
THINK THAT&apos;S ALSO THE CONCERN
THAT I HEAR YOU SAYING IT&apos;S AT
THE END OF THE STOP SIGN THE
PARCEL IS RIGHT ACROSS THE
STREET FROM THE STOP SIGN AND
IT&apos;S IT YOU KNOW, I CAN SEE
WHERE THE CONCERN THAT YOU&apos;RE
RAISING ARE THERE AND I THINK
THOSE THINGS ARE VALID.
&gt;&gt; AS COMMISSIONER SILVER SAID,
IT&apos;S OUT OF OUR PURVIEW SO WE
CAN&apos;T IF IF STAFF SAYS IT
DOESN&apos;T MEET THE THRESHOLD TO
GET THE TRAFFIC EVALUATION AND
BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT MORE THAN
FIFTY TRIPS PER DAY, WE CAN&apos;T
DENY IT BASED ON THAT BECAUSE
THAT&apos;S HOW THE THE THE THE
TRAFFIC REPORT WORKS.
&gt;&gt; BUT THAT DOESN&apos;T MEAN YOU
CAN&apos;T TALK TO YOUR COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN&apos;T TALK TO THE CITY
TO SAY THESE ARE THE CONCERNS
THAT WE HAVE AND IT SOUNDS LIKE
THE DEVELOPER IS WANTING TO BE
AGREEABLE WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD
TO FIT INTO THE FABRIC OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD TO WORK WITH YOU.
THAT THAT IS MY ASSESSMENT
HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO AM I CORRECT THAT YOU&apos;RE
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN LIKE TWENTY
FIVE AND THIRTY THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
REALLY IS OUR EXPECTATION THAT
THE NUMBER WILL COME OUT
SOMEWHERE AROUND THERE.
YOU&apos;RE RIGHT AND AND THANK YOU
FOR YOUR COMMENTS.
YOU ARE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
THE SQUARE FOOTAGE CALCULATION
IS A VERY ROUGH CALCULATION AND
AND THINGS LIKE KITCHENS AND
HALLWAYS AND BATHROOMS DON&apos;T
COUNT IN THE SQUARE FOOTAGE.
YEAH REALISTIC PLAY SPACE AND
SO ON.
YEAH, WE WOULD WE WOULD
PROBABLY NOT EVER GET CLOSE TO
THAT FORTY NO I THINK YOU&apos;RE
RIGHT THE TWENTY FIVE TO THIRTY
IS MUCH MORE REAL ESTATE CARS.
YEAH.
AND 12 TO 15 CARS SOUNDS RIGHT
ALSO AND I DO WANT TO JUST
POINT OUT I DON&apos;T KNOW WHO SAID
IT BUT WE ONLY HAVE ONE KITCHEN
THERE ARE THREE BATHROOMS ONE
KITCHEN SIX SIX BEDROOMS.
SO THAT&apos;S AND WE DO OFFER TIMES
.
&gt;&gt; OH YES.
AND AND WE DO TAKE STATE
SUBSIDIES.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE ANY CHILDREN
TAKING THE SUBSIDIES RIGHT NOW
BUT WE HAVE IN THE PAST AND WE
WILL TAKE STATE SUBSIDY
CHILDREN ABSOLUTELY
.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS EMOTIONALLY
BASED ON WHAT COMMISSIONER
WEISS AND ABRAMS SAID?
I WOULD BE FRIENDLY TO
EMOTION&apos;S TO AMEND THE
CONDITION DOWN TO THIRTY THE
CAPACITY LOOKING UP THEIR
EXISTING LOCATION.
TWELVE SEVENTEEN.
PATRICIA LOOK LIKE THEIR
CAPACITY WAS SEVEN TO 12 BASED
ON FIFTEEN HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
SO WOULD BE FORTY FOUR.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S ACTUALLY WORKING.
&gt;&gt; WE JUST GOT TO CHANGE BASED
ON THE NEW STATE LAW IN THE
LAST MONTH BECAUSE OF THE NEED
FOR CHILDCARE.
&gt;&gt; GOTCHA.
NOW UNDERSTOOD RELATIVE TO THAT
TAKE OFF OF LIKE DOUBLING AND
SQUARE FOOTAGE I WOULD BE
FRIENDLY TO THAT AMENDMENT
THAT&apos;S PRETTY MUCH THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
OK, SO WE WOULD THEN NEED TO
AMEND THE MOTION SO THAT IN
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS FOR NO
MORE THAN 30 CHILDREN.
IS THAT CORRECT, MR. KOWALSKI?
&gt;&gt; YES, THAT&apos;S WHAT I HAVE
LISTED.
THE ONLY MODIFICATION I HAVE IS
THAT THAT THE CHANGE FROM 40 TO
30.
&gt;&gt; YEP.
SO DO WE HAVE MOTION THAT WE
HAVE MOTION FOR THAT WE HAVE A
SECOND TO THAT MOTION OR OH I&apos;M
SORRY.
THAT&apos;S WHAT YOU WERE OK?
YES, ALMOST THAT MOTION SECOND
BY AVIANS.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION ON THAT?
NO.
THE DISCUSSION OK SO SHOULD WE
VOTE ON ARE WE READY TO VOTE
THEN WITH THAT.
YEAH YEAH RIGHT EXACTLY.
IT&apos;S FRANKLY IT&apos;S REALLY YEAH
YEAH.
&gt;&gt; I BELIEVE IF IT&apos;S FRIENDLY
YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO HAVE AN
ACTUAL VOTE OK FRIENDLY
FRIENDLY OK.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THAT&apos;S JUST THE MOTION THAT
WE CAN GET AND THEN WE CAN BE
READY FOR A ROLL CALL VOTE.
OK SO WOMEN&apos;S MOTION OK.
&gt;&gt; OK SO ROLL CALL VOTE
COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; YES COMMISSIONER.
GIVE RANDALL.
&gt;&gt; YES COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
YES.
COMMISSIONER EVANS.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER DISH.
&gt;&gt; YES COMMISSIONER.
YES AND COMMISSIONER.
YES.
THANK YOU.
THE MOTION IS APPROVED AS
AMENDED.
&gt;&gt; THANK GOD.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHTY.
WE ARE NOW MOVING ON TO OUR
FINAL OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS FOR PEOPLE TO SPEAK UP
TO THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE
THAT IS THAT IS NOT LISTED ON
THE AGENDA WERE A FIRST CALL
AND PEOPLE IN THE ROOM WHICH
LOOKS LIKE THEY ARE CURRENTLY
LEAVING AND THEN WE WILL ALSO
I&apos;M SORRY WORDS ARE STARTING TO
FAIL AFTER 11 O&apos;CLOCK BECAUSE
WE WILL ENTERTAIN PEOPLE
VIRTUALLY AS WELL AS TO SPEAK
REMOTELY TO SO TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PRESS NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE TO
RAISE THE HAND FEATURE FOR
PHONE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND OUR MEETING IS NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HANDS USING THE THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
MY NAME YOU&apos;LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT.
PLEASE GO TO A QUIET AREA.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS ANYBODY WAITING IN THE
QUEUE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
YES, I&apos;M SORRY.
YES.
WE HAVE ONE CALLER AT THIS TIME
AND I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS IF YOU
COULD MUTE SORRY I YOU AND YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS
COMMISSION.
I AM HERE AGAIN SUPER BRIEF.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THE
DISCUSSION THAT GEORGE WAS VERY
EDIFYING I REALLY QUESTION THE
QUESTIONS AND CLARIFICATIONS BY
THE QUESTIONERS AS WELL AS THE
ANSWERS FROM THE PETITIONER AND
SPECIAL THANKS TO COMMISSIONER
LEE FOR CUTTING THROUGH SOME
OF THE JARGON THE PETITIONER
ARE WILLING TO BE MORE THAN
ACCOMMODATING AND IF I WRITE MY
REVISION AND COMMISSIONER
SURVEYED GROUNDING THE
CONVERSATION, I HOPE WE CAN
TAKE SOME LESSONS FROM THIS
SITUATION AND I HOPE THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD CAN EVENTUALLY
REGAIN SOME WALKABLE RETAIL
SERVICES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ALREADY ON TO ITEM NUMBER TEN
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD JUST LIKE TO SAY
THERE WAS ONE MORE CALLER SORRY
.
NOWADAYS I&apos;M SORRY.
NOT SO QUICK.
ANYBODY ELSE?
ADAM GOODMAN, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION BY ADAM GOODMAN 400
VIRGINIA AVENUE.
&gt;&gt; SO I SENT AN EMAIL TO THE
COMMISSIONER A LITTLE WHILE
BACK ABOUT PARKING AND TONIGHT
MADE ME REALIZE THERE IS ONE
THING I HADN&apos;T NOTICED THAT
MIGHT ALSO BE WORTH LOOKING AT.
SO IN THE IN THE UNIVERSITY
PROJECT IT LOOKED LIKE ALL
OF THE BIKE PARKING FOR THAT
BUILDING IS B IS CLASS WHICH
MEANS IT&apos;S INDOOR AND SECURED
AND GENERALLY THAT&apos;S A GOOD
THING, RIGHT?
WE CONSIDER CLASS TO BE THE
BEST FORM OF BIKE PARKING IN
THE IN THE IN THE UDC BUT THAT
MEANS THERE&apos;S NOT REALLY
ANYWHERE GOOD FOR FOR VISITORS
TO LOCK UP THE BIKE.
SO I THINK THAT WHAT THE
DEVELOPER PROPOSED THERE IS
ALLOWED UNDER THE CODE BECAUSE
YOU&apos;RE ALLOWED TO UPGRADE TO
BETTER CLASS OF BIKE PARKING
BUT THAT MIGHT NOT ACTUALLY BE
WHAT WE WANT.
I THINK WE MIGHT ACTUALLY WANT
A MIX IN IN ALL OF THESE SORTS
OF DEVELOPMENTS SO THAT THERE&apos;S
SOME BACK PARKING FOR VISITORS
AS WELL AS FOR RESIDENTS.
SO YOU KNOW, MIGHT BE SOMETHING
TO THINK ABOUT AND FUTURE
PROJECTS.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE.
THANK YOU.
I AGREE
.
&gt;&gt; OK, I TOO HAVE A ANOTHER ONE
CALLER WITH THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF SIX ZERO FOUR YOU CAN
MUTE ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION PLEASE CALLER HI
ROSEWOOD&apos;S OR WE&apos;LL TO THE WHAT
WE CALL CROWHURST WALKING LOOK
THE DOOR GEORGE AND THE OTHER
WAS WARNER STADIUM AND SBW AND
DESPITE ALL OF THE TALK THAT WE
HAD HEARD OVER THE YEARS ABOUT
ME, YOU HAD BEEN EXTREMELY
DISAPPOINTED IN GEORGE FAMILY
BUT BEING ANOTHER WELL THE
CAPITAL CITIES ALL WE HEARD
GATHERED AROUND YOU KNOW THERE
NO MORE WALKABLE SUPERMARKET WE
HAVE TO DRIVE.
&gt;&gt; WE TAKE THE BUS EXPERIMENT
UNTIL WE ACTUALLY TAKE EFFECT.
GEORGE EVERY GREAT I KNOW WE
SEE AND HEAR ONE OF THE
CONCERNS AND ISSUE OF THE FACT
THAT WE CLOSED THE RESIDENTIAL
NEAR A DUMPSTER BUT WHEN I WAS
16 THAT&apos;S WHEN THE GARBAGE SO
ONCE AGAIN THEY DRIVE COMPLEXES
AND RESIDENT AREAS COME HERE
AND I REALLY FEEL WHATSOEVER
THE SAME S MADE IT NOBODY THERE
ANYMORE.
EVERYONE AFTER THAT THAT GOES
SO IN SOME WAY TO ACTUALLY MAKE
THIS WORK THAT CONSTANT
RHETORIC ABOUT AFFORDABLE AND
USE THAT TO TRY TO FIGURE OUT A
WAY INCORPORATE THAT INTO OUR
PLANNING PROCESS SO THAT WE GET
BOTH AFFORDABILITY AND LETTING
THE MARKET IN TROUBLE IS
CURRENTLY WORKING.
&gt;&gt; THANKS VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; ANYBODY ELSE AND THAT&apos;S THE
LAST CAR.
OK, ON ITEM NUMBER TEN WHICH IS
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
ANYBODY I JUST WE HAVE THE
PUBLIC HEARINGS THAT WE READ
EARLIER BUT I DON&apos;T HAVE
ANYTHING ELSE OFFHAND.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO AND WE
DON&apos;T HAVE TO DISCUSS THIS NOW
BUT TODAY WAS AN EXCELLENT
EXAMPLE.
A LOT OF COMMUNICATIONS JUST
DRIBBLING IN THROUGHOUT THE
WHOLE DAY AND IT&apos;S VERY
DIFFICULT I THINK FOR US TO
KEEP UP WITH ALL OF THAT.
AND I SUGGEST THAT WE AT SOME
POINT TALK ABOUT A CUT OFF IN
TERMS OF IT BEING REALISTIC FOR
US TO ACTUALLY ABSORB THOSE
PRIOR TO THE MEETING.
SO ANYBODY ELSE?
ALL RIGHT.
ON TO ITEM ELEVEN ADJOURNMENT
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER LEE,
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS.
&gt;&gt; WE I&apos;M SORRY I WAS READING
YOUR NOTE WHO MOVED IN?
LEON MILLS AND I&apos;M SORRY WHO
MADE IT AND WHO SECOND WE GOT
IT GOT THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; WE ALL AGREE.
ARE YOU SURE YOU WANT TO LEAVE
?
OH COME ON.
THIS IS MY FIRST MEETING BACK
SO FAR.
&gt;&gt; COME ON